the reason to study ancient greek culture is terribly interesting, but this answer is opposite of objective.
the position of the ancient geeks are at the most significant starting point of the Western civilization. 处于最重要的起点
which is the culture that most powerfully shapes not only the west but most of the world today.

it seems to me to be evident, that what ever it's other characteristics, the West has created institutions of government and law that provide unprecedented freedom for it's people.

it has also invented a body of scientific knowledge and technological achievement that together make possible a level of health and material prosperity undreamed of in earlier times.

Moreover, experience suggests that a society  cannot achieve the full benefits of western science and technology without a commitment to reason and objectivity as essential to knowledge and to the political freedom that sustain it and help it to move forward. 

The primacy of reason and the pursuit of objectivity, therefore, both characteristics of the western experience seem to me to be essential for the achievement of desired goals almost anywhere in the world.

The civilization of the West, however, was not the result of some inevitable process through which other cultures will automatically pass. It emerged from a unique history in which chance and accidence often play vital part. 

The institution and ideas therefore, that improve for freedom and improvement in the material conditions of life can not take root and  flourish without an understanding of how they came about and what challenges they have had to surmount.

The many civilization adopted by the human race have shared basic characteristics. Most have tended cultural uniformity and stability.
Reason, although it was employed for all sorts of practical and intellectual purposes in some of these cultures, still lacked independence from religion and it lacked high status to challenge the most basic received ideas.

Standard form of government has been monarchy. Outside the west, republics have been unknown. Rulers have been thought to be divine, or the appointed spokesman for divinity. Religious and political institutions and beliefs have been thoroughly intertwined as a mutually supportive unified structure.

secular:世俗的 非宗教的
Government has not been subjective to secular reasoned analysis. It is rested on religious authority, tradition, and power. 
The concept of individual freedom has had no importance in the great majority of cultures in human history.

The first and the sharpest break with this common human experience came in ancient Greece. The Greek city states called polis or republics. Differences in wealth among their citizens were relatively small. There were no kings with the wealth to hire mercenary soldiers so the citizens have to do their own fighting and to decide when to fight. As independent defenders of the common safety and the common interest, the demanded a role in the most important political decisions. In this way, for the first time, political life really was invented. Observe the word "political" derives from the Greek word polis. Before that no word was needed because there was no such thing. 

This political life came to be shared by a large proportion of people and participation of political life was highly valued by the ancient Greeks. Such state, of course, does not need a bureaucracy for there were no vast royal or state holdings that need management and not much economic surplus to support a bureaucratic class. There was no separated caste of priests.[casted 种姓 社会地位 社会团体] and very little concern, I don't mean no concern, but very little concern with life after death which was universally important in other civilizations. 

In this varied, dynamic, secular, and remarkably free context, there arose for the first time a speculative natural philosophy based on observation and reason. The root of modern science and technology, free to investigate or to ignore divinity.

What sets the greeks apart is their view of the world. Where other people have seen sameness and continuity, the greeks and the heirs of their way of thinking have tended to notice disjunctions and to make distinctions. The Greek way of looking at the things requires a change from the characteristic way of knowing the things before the greeks, that is to say, the use of faith, poetry and intuition. The greeks increasingly reliance on reason. 
Reason permits a continuing rational inquiring into the nature of reality. Unlike mystical insights, scientific theories cannot be arrived by meditation alone. But require accurate observation of the world and reasoning in a kind that other human being can criticize, analyze, modify and correct. 
enthronement 登基 开端
The adoption of this way of thinking was the beginning of the libration and enthronement of reason to who's searching for examination. The greeks thereafter(之后), exposed everything they perceived(认为感觉注意到意识到), natural, human and divine. 

From the time they were conquered by alien empires, the Greeks also rejected monarchy of any kind. They thought a human being functioning in his full capacity must live as a free man live in a autonomous polios ruled by laws that were the product of the political community.
Not from an arbitrary fiat() from some man or god. These are ideas about laws and justice that have simply not flourished outside of the Western tradition.  

The greeks however combined the unique sense of mankind's high place in the natural order. They combined it with the painful understanding of the limitations of the greatness and the possibilities before man. This combination of the greatness in reality and the possibility of human beings with limitations of it, one great limitation being mortality(mortal 凡人的 mortality 死亡率 终有一死), that together composes() the tragic vision of human condition that characterized in classic Greek civilization. To cope with it, they urged human beings to restrain their overarching(首要的) ambitions. Inscribed at Apollo's temple in Delphi, "know thyselves"  and other statement, "nothing in excess(多余)". 
I think those together really mean this: know your own limitations as a fallible(易犯错误的) mortal, and then exercise moderation(适度) because you are not divine, you are mortal.

Beyond these exhortations(劝勉), they relied on a good political regime(政权) to enable human beings to fullfil the capacities that was part of their nature. To train them in virtue, and to restrain them from vice(v握住n恶习小的adj副的)

Aristotle, and his politics made the point neatly and I quote him. "As man is the best of the animals when perfected, so he is the worst, when separated from law and justice. For injustice is the most dangerous when it's armed, and man armed by nature with good sense and virtue, may use them for entirely opposite ends. Therefore, when he is without virtue, man is the most unscrupulous(肆无忌惮的) and savage of the animals". Aristotle went on to say that the justice needed to control the dark side of human nature. this can be found only in a well-ordered society of free people who govern themselves and the only one he knew was the polis of Greece.

Now the second great strand(主线) in the history of the West is the Judeo Christian tradition, a very different tradition from the one that I just described. Christianity main roots were in Judaism, a religion worshipped a single all powerful deity(), who is sharply separated from the human beings, makes great moral demands upon them, and judges them all, even kings and emperors. Christianity began as a persecuted religion that ultimately captured the Roman Empire only after centuries of hostility towards the secular state in general. It never lost entirely its original character as an insurgent(叛乱的 起义) movement, independent to the state and hostile to it, making claims that challenge the secular society. This too, is unique to the West, just like the Greek is unique, this kind of religious organization is to be found nowhere else in human society. 
So, the union of a universalist religion with a monarch such as the Roman empire, could nonetheless put an end to any prospect of freedom as in other civilizations. But Christianity's inheritance of the rational disputatious greek philosophy lead to powerfully divisive(分裂的) quarrels about the nature of god and other theological questions, which was perfectly in the tradition and uniquely in the tradition of  greek philosophical debate.

Well the people who the Romans called barbarians, destroyed the Roman Empire and also destroyed the power of the emperors and their efforts to impose religious and political conformity under imperial(帝国) control. The emperors in the East would do that because they were not conquered by the barbarians, but in the West, you have a situation that nobody is fully in charge. And here we have the second sharp break with the general experience of mankind.
The West of Germanic tribes that has toppled Roman Empire was weak and was divided. The barrier of unity presented by the European geography and very limited technology made it hard for a would-be conqueror to create a vast empire eliminating competitors and imposting(强制实施 壮观的) his will over vast areas. These conditions permitted a development of institutions and habits needed for freedom, even as they also made Europe vulnerable to conquests(征服 占领) and to extinction, in fact Europe was almost extinguished practically before there was a Europe, very early in its history. The Christian church might have stepped into the breach(n.v.违反) and imposed obedience(服从) and uniformity, because before terribly long all of the West had been Christianized. But the church, in fact, never gained enough power to control a state. Strong enough to interfere with the ambitious of emperors and kings, it never was able to impose its domination, though some of the Popes sure tried. 

Nobody thought of planned for freedom, but in the spaces that were left by the endless conflicts among the secular ruler and between them and the church, there was room for freedom to grow. Freedom was a kind of an accident that came about because the usual ways of doing things were not possible. Into some of that cities, towns and cities reappeared and with them new support of freedom. Taking advantage of the rivalries that I mentioned they obtained charters from the local powers establishing their rights to conduct their own affairs to govern themselves. In Italy, some of the cities were able to gain control of the surrounding country and become city states, resembling those of the ancient Greeks. Their autonomy was assisted by the continuing struggle between Pope and emperors, between church and states, again a thoroughly unique Western experience.

In these states, the modern world began to take form. Although the people were mainly Christians, their life and outlook became increasingly secular. Here, not in Italy but in other cities north the Alps, arose a worldview that celebrated the greatness and dignity of mankind which was a very sharp turning away from the medieval Western tradition that put God and life in the hereafter at the center of everything. 
This new vision was revealed with flamboyant(艳丽的 凤凰木) confidence by Pico della Mirandola, a Florentine thinker who wrote the following:"God told man that we, meaning God, have made the neither of Heaven nor of Earth, neither mortal nor immortal, so that with freedom of choice and with honor, as though the maker and molder(腐烂) of thyself, thou mayest fashion thyself in whatever shape thou shalt prefer. To Him it is granted to have whatever He chooses and to be whatever He wills." This is a remarkable leap, even beyond the humanism Greeks, something brand new in the world.
According to this view, man is not merely a measure of all things as the Greek Sophies Protagoras had radically(从根本上) proclaimed(宣告) in the 5th century. He is in fact says Pico, more than mortal, he is unlimited by nature. He is entirely free to shape himself and to acquire what ever he wants. Please observe too that it is not only his reason that will determine human actions but his will alone, free of the moderating control of reason.

Another Florentine, Machiavelli, moved further into the same direction. For him and I quote him, for him "Fortune is a woman and it is necessary to hold her down to beat her and fight with her" a notion that the Greeks would have regarded as dangerously arrogant and certain to produce disaster. They would have seen this as an example of the word that they used and we will talk a lot in this course, hubris, a kind of violent arrogance which comes upon men when they see themselves as more than human and behave as though they were divine.
Francis Bacon, influenced by Machiavelli, urged human beings to employ their reason to fore nature to give up its secrets, that treat nature like a woman, to master nature in order to improve man's material will being. He assumed that such a course would lead to progress and a general improvement of the human condition. And it was that kind of thinking that lay at the heart of the scientific revolution and remains the faith on which modern technology and modern technology rest.

A couple of other English political philosophers, Hobbs and Locke, applied a similar novelty(新奇的事物) and modernity to the sphere(范围领域 球) of politics. Basing their understanding on the common passions of man for a comfortable self-preservation and discovering something that the Greeks have never thought of, something they called natural rights that belong to a man, either as part of the nature, or as a gift of a benevolent(仁慈的 救济的) God.
Man was seen as a solidary creature, not inherently a part of society. That's total unGreek. And his basic right were seen to be absolute, for nothing must interfere with the right of each individual to defend his life, liberty and property. 

Freedom was threatened in early modern times by the emergence of monarchies that might have been able to crush it. But the cause of individual freedom was enhanced by the Protestant Reformation, another upheaval(巨变 隆起) within Christianity arising from its focus on individual salvation, its inheritance of a tradition of penetrating reason applied even to matters of faith and to the continuing struggle between the church and state. The English Revolution came about in large part because of King Charles' first attempt to impose an alien religious conformity as well as tighter political control on his kingdom. But in England, the tradition of freedom and government bound by law was already strong enough to produce effective resistance. From the ensuing(随之而来的) rebellion came limited constitutional representative government and ultimately our modern form of democracy. The example, and the ideas it produced, encouraged and informed(通知影响了解) the French and American Revolution and the entire modern constitutional tradition. These ideas and institutions(制度) are the basis for modern liberal thinking about politics, the individual and society, just as the confident view of science and technology has progressive forces improving humanity and increasing man's capacity to understand and control the universe has been the most powerful form taken by the Western elevation of reason. 

In the last two centuries, both these most characteristic elements of Western civilization have in fact become increasingly under heavy attack. At different times, science and technology have been blamed for the destruction of human community and the alienation of people from nature and from one another, for intensifying the gulf between rich and poor, for threatening the very existence of humanity, either by producing weapons of total destruction, or by destroying environment. At the same time, the foundations of freedom have also come into question. Jefferson and his colleagues could confidently their political rights have been self-evident and a gift of a creator. But now, in our time, however, the power of religion has faded, and for many, the basis of modern political and moral order has been demolished. Nietzsche announced the death of God and Dostoyevsky's Grand Inquisitor asserted that when god is dead all things are permitted.
Nihilism(虚无主义) rejects any objective basis for society and its morality. It rejects the very concept of objectivity, it even rejects the possibility of communication itself, and of all the forms of Nihilism I claim, has a remarkable influence in our educational system today, a system rotting from the head down, so chiefly in universities but all the way down to the elementary schools.  The consequences of the victory of such ideas, I believe, would be enormous. If both religion and reason were removed, all that remains is will and power, where the only law is the law of tooth and claw. There is no protection of the weaker individuals, or those who question the authority of the most powerful. There is no basis for individual rights, or for a critique of existing ideas and institutions, if there is no base either in religion or in reason.
That such attacks on the greatest achievements of the West should be made by West intellectuals is perfectly in keeping with the Western tradition. The first crowd you'll find do that is in the 5th B.C. in Greece. The movement called the Sophistic Movement(当时兴起了一种诡辩运动). These Sophists raised most of the questions that me and my colleagues now spending all the their time with. Yet, to me, it seems ironic that they have gained so much currency in a time, more or less, in which the achievements of Western reason in a form a science at a moment in the concept of political freedom seemed to be more popular more desirable to people in and out of Western civilization than ever.

Now I would be saying kind things about Western civilization, but I would not want to deny that there is a dark side to the Western civilization and its way of life. To put untrammeled(trammel 束缚) reasons and individual freedom at the center of civilization is to live with the conflict, the turmoil(动荡 骚乱), the instability and the uncertainty that these things create.
Freedom was born and has survived in the space created by divisions and conflict within and between nations and religions. We must wonder that the power of modern weapons will allow it and the world to survive at such a price. Individual freedom, although it has greatly elevated the condition of the people who have lived in free societies, inevitably permits inequalities which are the more galling(难堪的) because each person is plainly free to improve to try to improve his situation and largely responsible for the outcome. Freedom does permit isolation from society and an alienation of the individual at a high cost, both to the individual and the society. These are not the only problems posed by the Western in its modern form, which is what we live in. Whether it takes the shape of the unbridled(bridle 缰绳) claims of Pico della Mirandola or the Nietzsche's assertion of the power of the superior individual to transform and shape his own nature, or of the modern totalitarian(极权主义) effort to change the nature of humanity by Utopian social engineering, the temptation to arrogance offered by the ideas and world success of the modern West threatens its own great traditions and achievements. Because Western civilizations emerged as the exemplary(模板) civilization, it also presents problem to the whole world. The challenge presented by freedom and the  predominance of reason cannot be ignored, nor can they be met by recourse(求援求助) to the experience of other cultures where these characteristics have not been prominent. In other words, to understand and cope with the problems that we all face, we all need to know and to grapple(抓住 格斗) with the Western experience. In my view, we need especially to examine the older traditions of the West that came before the modern era, and to take seriously the possibility that useful wisdom can be found there, especially among the Greeks who began it all. They understand the potentiality of human beings, their limitations and their predicament(困境) in which they live. 
Man is potent and important, yet he is fallible and mortal, capable for the greatest achievements and the worst crimes. He is then a tragic figure, powerful but limited, with freedom to choose and act, but bound by his own nature, knowing that he will never achieve perfect knowledge and understanding, justice and happiness. But determined to continue the search no matter what. To me, that seems an accurate description of the human condition that is meaningful, not only for the Greeks and their heirs in the West, but for all human beings. It is an understanding that cannot be achieved without a serious examination of the Western experience. The abandonment of such a study or its adulteration(掺假) for current political purposes would be a terrible loss for of humanity. And at the base, at the roots of that civilization stood the Greeks. These are the reasons why I examine their experience and I trust that you are thinking about learning about it. Thank you.