Athens is located in the southeastern portion of the Greek peninsula. MOst of the land is quite barren agriculturally, but there are some places where there are rich soil. THere is a good harbour and most land is not rich because of red soil, which is further turned into great pottery. Some part produces good marble and silver mining. The less productive land is used to produce wine and plant olive trees. 

There are a lot of the migrants from other places to move to Athens and become Athenians because Athens was not declared to be invaded by the Dorians. There is sort of harmony in Athens and nothing like the helot class here. THere is no suppressed population waiting to get at their rulers. So athens is going to be without internal strife.

The society is aristocratic. all that matters is birth, wealth don't play a rule. But in oligarchy wealth does play a rule. As awe see Athens move out of the aristocratic condition into one that is more based on wealth than it is merely on birth.

Aristotle tells us in 683B.C., magistrates are chosen from the aristocracy to do various jobs in the cities. One of these is the War archon(统治官，执政官 雅典九人执政之一), he was the most important. The second archon gives the name of the year after him. The greeks don't have a system of dating. they name the year after the magistrate of the state. So that archon is called the man who gives his name to the state. A third archon was known as the king archon. His responsibility is mainly religious. Then there is a group of six men whose function were judicial. People could go for specific purposes. All men of the 9 archons are referred to as the college of nine archons(九执政官之院), they had a secretary, which brought the number up to ten. They were elected by the assembly of all Athenian adult male, which were mainly not aristocrats, they chose from the aristocrats for those archons.

The archons serve for one year and not again. Nobody in Athens holds an office at this time for more than a year. THe only thing in town in continuity that can develop power and influence over a period of time, is the council of the Areopagus(战神山议事会). THat's what aristocratic and oligarchic regimes do. They are very nervous about individuals who acquire too much power, popularity, influence, which will threaten the character of the aristocracy. Aristocracy--this may seem funny--but aristocracy loves equality, equality among aristocrats, and then tremendous inequality between them and everybody else.

An aristocratic republic is what we have. Not a monarchy but republic. Dominated insofar(在。。状况下) as it's dominated by anybody but individual aristocrats, by the Areopagus. THe council members are actually consisted of men who have been archon, the year after their archonship, they automatically go into the council and remain there for life.

Then it comes to Athens as it did to every other state, later it looks like in Athens. It grows slowly and late, but it begins to engage in commerce to a greater degree than before. And as handcrafts manufacturing, which leads to new wealth and new class distinctions, which are now based not on birth, but on wealth. The Athenians divided people in different classes, one of them was the wellborn, in ancient time there were only class either were or not. But now we hear about people called cavalryman. You can't have a horse unless you have a lot of money. At the bottom of the barrel(社会底层), we hear about people called thetes(雇工), they are poor, they don't own land. They live at the mercy of chance, they work for other people. They do anything they can to stay alive. But now comes the new thing. They were men who could own a pair of oxen so they were well sufficient enough to make them respectably well of farmers. This new class of independent family farmer has arisen in Athens.

As in other states, they were not satisfied with the position in the state as his own importance to the state becomes greater and greater. 

The next change is not happen but it would change history if so. According to tradition in the year of 632bc, an athenian nobleman who become famous because of his victory in the athletic contest and married a daughter of a tyrant near Athens, so this young man was a big shot of extraordinary character named Cylon, attempted to establish a tyranny in Athens. but he couldn't and was defeated. THough it failed, unlike in many states in Greece, this is a waning about troubles ahead.

In 621B.C., Athens had it first written law code, famous as the Code of Draco(德拉古法典). Reports that we have of it indicate that one kind of law that was included in the code was concerning homicide(杀人罪), which have a special place in Greek thinking. Probably it's true of most primitive societies that homicide involves religious ideas. The Greek idea was that killing of men was accepted in wartime was a religious pollution that had to be taken care of one way or another. Beyond that, there was also the primitive thing that was not particularly religious but reflect primitive thinking that all homicides need to be avenged(报复). And so the blood feud(世仇) was clearly prat of the way to deal with homicide in the early history.

In the process of civilization and urbanization, people began to feel this has got to stop. One reason for that is because it tears the community apart, as you are in the business of building a community which is what's happening here in the polis, you can have that revenge going on. After developments of the government and people began to recognize and started to search for better ways to solve that and that's what result in the Code.

Just the fact that there's a written code, now that it's available to anybody who can read--which is to say not a lot people--but even so people can read could tell other people. That very fact is the sign of the decline of the aristocracy. Because they alone used to know what the law was and people would go to them and ask and they could administer it as they saw fit.

We can compare the code to a much older one in Mesopotamia, the most famous of these which is inscribe on a remarkable piece of sculpture, the code of Hammurabi from 2000B.C. It is really quite similar in its essence.  It says if so and so does such a thing, this is what the punishment is. From our point of view, early code like this are notorious for how harsh they are. The Greeks later on said, the code of Draco was not written in ink, but in blood.

Nobody actually inventing these laws, the fact that what it does is to codify what had been the ordinary fact. And a characteristic for such developments is that over time when people know how harsh they are they started to reduce the severity of the penalties and to legislate in a more gentle way. 

In the early 6 century, Solon, whom we think of as the great lawgiver, who not only wrote those poems that we read some other day. the greek seven sages, Solon was one of them. 

Now what becomes apparent as soon as we examine what has bring Solon to the fore is that Athens is clearly facing a serious internal problem. The traditional date for Solon's appointment as sole archon in these years is 594B.C. The crisis is the most acute(严重的急性的灵敏度锐角的) form, takes the shape that Athenians being slaved. And this picture is at least a couple of generations old. And it's this that--how did they get to be slaves? These are not those people being conquered, these are Athenian citizens who used to be free and have become slaves. The answer to how they become slaves is through debt.

And there are lots of sharecroppers under the control of the people whom they owned the debt. The lands that were mortgaged in effect were shown by a stone that have the mortgage inscribed on it. Seeings of the stone all over the field were indicative of the pitiful lot of the poor farmers who have fallen into debt.

With the internal problem and it seems the same problem bothers the neighboring states well and where tyranny began to establish, the Athenians finally decided to select among themselves a solo archon replacing the seven archons, for one year, and he would be allowed to legislate for the Athenians as a way out of the trouble they were in.

They chose Solon out of much capability. The character of the reforms that he proposed were very much moderate. That's the word the came to be the one so much admired, favored and sought(seek 被效仿) by the Greek people.

What to do with those people who has lost their freedom, lost their property? Solon introduced a method that abolished all debts that were based on the body of the person. One the other hand, other normal debt continued. Another thing that the poor would have liked was the general cancellation of debt. 

Whenever you have general discontent in the lower people in the greek world there are two things, one is abolition of debt because they're always in debt, and the second is the redistribution of the land. This means civil war, nobody would want his land to be taken away from him and given somebody else. He didn't redistributed the land. The solon reform is moderate, yet unsatisfactory because it did not change the fundamental things which means in the future same thing could happen again. 

Another thing is that Solon changed the fact of citizenship for the Athenians that he offered to individuals who came and settle and showed he had a valuable skill. The result was in decades to come Athens became a great center for manufacturing. THis is a rare thing in the Greek history and there are few times for the foreigners to get citizenship in some peaceful time, and the influence of this act clearly had a long range consequences helpful to the Athenian state.

Well, brilliant, marvelous SOlon was so clever that he realized that when you're moderate, the wonderful achievement of moderate is that everybody is dissatisfied. Because the guys on both ends are unhappy. And what was emerges in our records about what was happening is that localism, regionalism was very popular, which was a large part of the problem in this period. Independent aristocratic figures each sought to make himself the dominant force in society. 

僭主时代
What Peisistratus did was not to change the constitution, but to dominate it. I think you have to imagine that there is the rule of a boss, he doesn't change the law, he just sees to it that all the appropriate bodies are controlled by his people. That, for analogy, is the way the Medici governed in Florence and they made themselves the rulers of that republic. 

savvy
He is also setting the circuit court to serve the faraway citizens who would used to go to local big shots for law issues. The new law he gives was one way to break down the local power, which seems to be a good thing for ordinary people, but actually good for himself. He didn't want local power, he is the only power. So that he could unify the state into a single thing.

supposition
confiscate(罚没充公 fisc 国库) some of the land of those who opposed him. As can be seen that after Solon's time, the situation of very big farmers and small farmers had changed, there are lots of middle size farmers emerged during the time of tyranny. And that's another reason that he had brought popularity.

ONe other thing that he did is to support small farmers. That could be the answer why Athenian agriculture can be so much successful after the time of the tyrants, as they had not been before.

There is one negative thing that nobody would like. Peisistratus instituted the first regular direct tax that we know. A five percent tax of all that was produced from the land. That money went to the tyrant and it made him wealthy. It also provided him with the money that he needed to be this good fellow, assisted his political power and his popularity.

a very special tyrant. the story tells that one day he went on the mountain of Athens and there he met an old, gnarled, mean, nasty guy saying,"On my farm, I grow rock, and Peisistratus is welcome to his five percent." What did the tyrant say, off with his head or send him on to the moon? He said, well, aren't you a very cute little fellow. I hereby declare your farm exempt(免除豁免) from taxes forever. And it became a famous thing a tax free farm, even shows up in a Byzantine encyclopedia.

