Peisistratus did in 527B.C., with all his power and was succeeded in the tyranny over Athens by his sons, by the first wife, Hippeis who was the elder and Hipparchus.

AT first, it appeared that they ruled in the same way as their father had, which was to say the one that was moderate and didn't cause a great deal of opposition.

of course there are always a certain amount of opposition, we should not forget that. Aristocratic families alway vying for their own power and their own position when under different ones, different families got into trouble and were driven out.

in 514 there is a personal quarrel between the tyrants and one of the nobel young men which results in a plot to kill both the tyrants. Let by the two young men known in Athenian lore(传说) as the tyrannicides(弑僭者). They got killed after the success of killing one of the brother and this made the other brother thereafter very nervous, very concerned about the safety and the nature of the regime according to tradition changes, it becomes very harsh. THere are suspicions and persecutions of people. 

Then the family of Alcmaeonidae(埃尔迈可翁), they rebuilt the Delphi Oracle which made the priests very satisfied so that the money worked for the political advantage. The story that Herodotus tells it, their goal is to drive out Hippeis from Athens and the way to do it this time is to turn to the most powerful military state and use it for their purpose, which was clearly Sparta. 

to conclude with the tyranny rule. Many a positive element as was so often the case with tyranny. From the economical time, this was a period of great expansion of Athenian commerce, trade. Another consequence is the diminution(减小) in the power of the aristocracy. ANd this again was the general is the general story of the Greek world of tyranny. It never erase aristocracy, you never see the disappearance of the distinction between nobles and commoners. But the domination of the aristocracy, the monopoly of all power and the influence they used to have is not there. That is the tremendously important consequence. So that when tyranny goes away, it's necessary to reconstruct a new Athenian constitution. The answer is never simple to go back to the old days. Solon had intervened in an important way, and the tyrants had made their own contributions too, the change turned out to be permanent. It's also true that under the tyrants the local power was not dominant by the aristocracy but by the tyrants. That was the trend. The question was the relationship with the outer cities and Athens itself. Localism has been damaged but not abolished.

When Athenian tyrants tried to erase local powers, they put people in to some kind of self government, which is also an important character of the democracy. Because once people is given the power of self governing, it's unlikely to go back that easy. If you look back to the 20th century, in India, where people tried to get into the government system and it makes it very obvious differences between those countries who don't when it comes to the establishment of their own country. So, if we hve this experiences, we can say that tyranny is actually an important role form aristocracy government to democracy. But that's not what the tyrants wanted, they intended to rule for as long as they could. BUt that's one of the consequences as we see.

Well let's back to 510, when tyranny was overthrown and the family of great fame and they goes home. Now the question of the Athenians is what form of government should we have?  The contest for how to decide that was done in the usual old fashioned way, that is to say, in the contest of archonship. The candidates of holding one view against candidates holding the other view and that's how the things get decided. the man who won the contest setup a new council of 300, rather than the 400 which Solon established. And then he did a very interesting thing, which is to scrutinize the citizen's list and remove those whose father was not an Athenian. Solon has broke that to permit people with skills to move to Athens to acquire citizenship. But on the other hand, another people try to push the real democracy which run for election around Athens and tried to get people into his political party. But this is totally not what the Spartan people want. So they come back and drove him out of Attica, together with about 700 families who must have been in his faction. THis had made vast discontent and lots of Athenians rebel and shut the Spartan army down because they have numbers on their side. THe Spartan army was about hundreds people only. Finally the Sparta and Athens cut a deal and they go home. THus the democrats have taken over the city and decided to go forward. 

Now they wanted to have a new constitution because they're going to have a regime the like of which no one have never seen before. THis is not like the american constitution, it's more of the French revolution, normal people have taken over the power and ready to kill every aristocrats they find. But they are also in a fear of the local power as well as the Spartan invasion. So, it's in that hot environment where fear is all over the place. That is the new democratic constitution will be shaped.

The center of the new constitution, was the reform of the tribes. THese tribes goes back before the history. HE changed the tribe system in Athens from 4 to 10. Absolute new thing that have no tradition behind them. The tribes are now the real standard replacing old aristocrat families, they are given equally divided land, army, names and a new council of five hundred is set as a real democratic one, which function is to prepare for the thousand people assembly at first, but later on became the real powerful one. 

Aristotle writes in his Politics as follows:
"perhaps the question rather arises"--he's dealing with the whole question of citizenship--"about those who have been admitted to citizenship after a revolution have taken place"--such revolution was carried out after the expulsion(排除)--"when he enrolled many foreigners who had been slaves".

Again Aristotle or one of his pupils--there's some dispute about the document called the Constitution of Athens, here's what it said," with the aim of mixing up the population so that a great number would share in the citizenship, they came up with this phrase, do not judge according to the tribe." BUt it goes beyond tribe, it means do not judge on the basis of birth. Aristotle says it was directed against those who wants to check on family background.

WE would like to designate this Cleisthenic democracy the first democracy, as a hoplite democracy. It also means to some considerable degree, the poor are out. But there is always not a lot of the citizens who could be hoplite class, so it still remains a question whether it is democracy or not. BUt to come into that degree is deliberately blind to what's really happening. Nothing in the world that we know of anywhere ever like this had ever been seen before. This is also very weird among all the citadels where most of them remained oligarchy, typically the attitude for the Spartan and they would keep avoiding being in touch with them. It's like the 1917 where the revolution took place in Russia, it's dangerous, it's radical.

They don't call this regime democracy either. It's actually the equality before the law. It means something wipes out the distinctions among classes of people on the basis when it comes to the law. Every man who come before the law is equal to every other man.

Another thing is the freedom of speech. Every citizen can go to the center of the assembly to speak out what he wants to say and persuade people to follow his idea. The right to do so is the fundamental distinction between the free man and slaves, which is very important in the Athenian self-government.

On the other hand, nothing had taken place in the economy. It's still Solonian kind of classes. It was a deferential(恭顺) democracy in which the lower classes still looked up to the upper classes for leadership and guidance.

Now let's talk about the ostracism. 陶片放逐法 Our word ostracize derives from this.绝交。When it comes to January, the council would discuss whether we should do ostracism this year, it doesn't matter about the person and when it's about March, the city agora is fenced off, and every man could come with a piece of pottery or some other things, to write the person he wanted to ostracize. After all, the time is up, they put them in big pile and count it. If it's fewer than 6000 ballots, nobody gets ostracized. If there are more, now they divide them up into piles and the man who gets the most votes, he gets ostracized. It means he had to leave the area of Attica for ten years. He has been accused of no crime, and nothing to be done to his property and his family. After ten years he may come back. 

One of the famous story about ostracism is in the 5th century some country man hated the Justice man in athens and they come across the city and it was the day of ostracize. They asked the man of Justice to wrote on his name on the pottery because they simply cannot read for no reason, but just hate to relate his name with just. So the great man was expelled. 

People always associate the ostracism with democracy. BUt itself was just a piece of silly foolishness. This was meant to be a constitutional device to work in the political realm as a way to deterring a treason or other forms of unrest.

---

The period when the Greek poleis were left essentially to their own devices came to an end when a clash between the Persian empire at the most famous Battle of Marathon in 490. I'd like to tell you today about the rise of the Persian Empire. 


