I want to to talk to you about the beginnings of the greek experiences as far as we know it, and I should warn you at once, the further back in history you go, the less secure is your knowledge, especially at the beginning of our talk today, when you are in a truly prehistoric period.That is before there is any written evidence from the period in which you are interested. So, what we think we know, derives chiefly from the archeological evidence, which is before writing--mute evidence that has to be interpreted and is very complicated and is far from secure. Even a question such as date, which is so critical for the historians. It is really quite approximate and subject to controversy, as is just about every single thing I will tell you for the next few days will be even more than usual, subject to controversy about the most fundamental things. So, what you will hearing are approximations as best we can make them of what's going on.

Well, we begin our story with the emergence of the Bronze Age in the Aegean Sea area. That appears to have taken place about 3000 B.C. I think these days they date it down to about another century to about 2900 B.C. Precision is impossible, don't worry about that. And what we find, the first thing about the Bronze Age, and I use the word civilization now for the first time, because before the Bronze Age, there is nothing that we would define as civilization. 

Civilization involves the establishment of permanent dwelling areas that we call cities, as opposed to villages. Agricultural villages will have existed all over the place in the late Stone Age and the Neolithic Period(新石器时代), as it is known. But there is a difference, and the critical difference is that a city contains a number of people who do not provide their own support, that is to say they don't produce food. They need to acquire it from somebody else. Instead, they do various things like govern and are priest, are bureaucrats, and are engaged in other non-productive activities that depend upon others to feed them. That's the narrowest definition of cities. Of course, with cities we typically find a whole association of cultural characteristics which we deem as civilization. Well that's what we see for the first time in the Aegean area on the island of Crete. That civilization was discovered by the archaeologists right at the time of the twentieth century. Sir Arthur Evans, as Englishman, was responsible for the major work that has revealed that civilization. He was captivated(吸引) at one point that I think he convinced himself that he was the descendant of the kings of that civilization. 

But anyway, he named it after the legendary king of Crete who appears in Greek mythology by the name of Minos. So he referred to that civilization as the Minoan civilization. And when we use the word Minoan we mean the civilization who's home is Crete. It spreads beyond Crete, because the Minoans established what we might now call it Empire in various part of Mediterranean. It starts with Crete, it's a Bronze Age culture, and it's the first civilization we know in the area. What we find in the Minoan civilization, chiefly we can learn about the civilization from was the city of Knossos, located on the northern shore of Crete, where a great palace complex was discovered. When you visited that sight and draw the conclusions that are inevitable from examining it, you realize that they look and seem very much like older civilizations that grown in the Near East, the real sort of typical home of the kinds of things we talking about is Mesopotamia, modern Iraq, the Tigress, Euphrates Valley, spread out beyond Iraq and  went up to Syria and neighboring places. It, too, was very similar to the civilization apparently newer in the Nile Valley in Egypt, about which we know a great deals more than we know about the Minoan, because as you know it, in the nineteenth century scholars discovered how to read the languages that were written in Egypt and in Mesopotamia and are able to develop something approach history for the period we are talking about. That is not true for Crete because although they had scripts and we have available to us tablets with those writings on them. Today, no one has deciphered the language written by the Minoans. Therefore, we don't have that kind  of knowledge. So barring(除非) that, nonetheless, what we see reminds us very much of the ancient Bronze Age early civilizations. So that will be significant as we talk about how the Greeks differed from them, which get us back to the Greeks, but excuse me, the Minoans are not Greeks. Strictly speaking, what do we mean when we say somebody is Greek? We mean his native language, not one that he is acquired subsequently, but the one he learned as a child, was Greek. These are linguistic terms, but of course, the people who spoke them, especially in the early years, tend to be a relatively narrow collection of people, who intermarried with each other chiefly and therefore developed common cultural characteristics. 

So of course, the language is only a clue, when you speaking about Greeks you will be speaking about something more than merely the fact that they spoke a certain language. In the 19th century, there was a lot of talk about races. There were people who spoke about the Greek race or similar races for quite a long time in the science of anthropology and subjects and subjects like that. It has been determined that those terms are inappropriate. They suggested that something in gene that explains the characteristics of particular people which is certainly not true. So let's understand each other, we are talking about a culture when we talk about Greeks, which is most strikingly signified by the language that is spoken. Well, the way we can reason things out from the evidence suggests that Greek speaking peoples came down to the Aegean Sea, perhaps around 2000B.C., about a thousand years later that the Minoan people.

We really don't know much about the early Greek settlers. We began to know more about three or four hundred years down the road, when there appear buildings adn settlements in the world latter inhabited(居住) by the Greeks, as we know, to which we give the name Mycenaean. Now, that derives from one site in the northeastern Peloponnesus called Mycenae, the name was given because in the poems of Homer, the Iliad and the Odyssey, the leading Greek king, the man who is leader of the expedition of Troy, is Agamemnon, who was king of the Argolid region and his palace and his home is at Mycenae. That's the Bronze Age culture, running from about 1600, to perhaps as late as 1100, but perhaps not so late. That's what we mean when we speak about the Mycenaeans, and Mycenaean period, but please keep in mind that they are Greek speakers, and we know this with confidence. Something we didn't know at the beginning of 20 century because written evidence was available on a bunch of clay tablets that were accidentally baked in some conflagration in these places. 

The reason that we have any written evidence at all is that there was some kind of conflagration(大火) that produced a fire that baked the clay into pottery. In normal cases, clay dissolves and disappears and any message on it is erased. In other word, this was not meant to be a record to be left for the future. It was an accident. These things that we discovered were meant for a practical usage in ways that I will tell u about in a while. So anyway, let me back up a step, when Evens found writings at Knossos, he found two, well actually seven, but two of them were considered significant, two kinds of scripts, I shouldn't even say script, that sounds like he's writing a nice cursive line. There are two kinds of writings. Because he couldn't figure out what they were, he called one Linear A and the other Linear B, because he can tell by careful analysis that they were different and he could tell which pieces belong to which. Linear A was earlier and it is associated with and it si clearly the language by the Minoan kings at Knossos and other places. Linear B resembles Linear A, and it is clearly different and later and one reason we know that mostly comes from stratigraphy, but we can also tell it is a much simpler script, but by no means simple, they are not alphabets. 

These are syllabaries, every symbol resembles a syllable, in other word, typically two letters rather than one. That's a nice step over having loads of symbols representing lots of things. But still, we are talking about something approaching sixty symbols in a syllabary and when you think about how hard it is to learn to read only using 26 symbols. What we learn ultimately out decipherment of Linear B, which I skip over, which was done in the nineteen fifties by a brilliant young architect who love solving problems of this kind. He was able to discover that this was an early form of Greek that he could essentially make out what it said. At first there was doubt and controversy, which has completely gone away, as more and more examples of this writings become available and scholars are now able, by in large, to be confident that they know what these things say. So, that fact that this was a Greek script that was available in the Mycenaean Period tells us very confidently that the Mycenaeans were Greek. 

But of course, a lot was known about these Mycenaeans well before the syllabary was deciphered.  It's worth saying a word about that, I want to undermine any great confidence that you might have that what you believe the scholars tell you, because we keep finding out how wrong we are about all the things. I would say that if you walk into the leading universities in the world, they were probably German in the 1850s, and you went to the classics people, and you said, "Well, you know Homer wrote about these places, Mycenaean and other places, can you tell me where that was?". They say,"You silly fellow, that's just stories, that's mythology that' poetry. There never was an Agamemnon, there never was a Mycenae." 

Then in 1870, a German businessman by the name of Heinrich Schliemann, he don't have the benefit of university and he did't know what a fool and how ignorant he was, believed Homer, and he said he wanted to look for Troy. So, he went to where people thought Troy might be and he began digging there and before you know it, he discovered a mound(土堆) filled with cities, which he believed was Troy. And after the usual amount of scholarly debate, there seems to be no doubt that it was the City of Troy. So, having succeeded with that, he thought, well, now that I've seen Troy, how about Mycenae. Off he went to the northeastern Peloponnesus to the site, where he thought it might be, Mycenae, from Homer's account--and I won't be telling you the story and you know the outcome. He found it and it was the excavation of site of Mycenae which was soon followed by the excavation of other sites of the same period that made it possible for people to talk about this culture even before they could read the script.

The culture is marked with the following features, let's take Mycenae, which maybe the best example of the whole culture and certainly it's the perfect model for what we're talking about. What you have to begin with, is a town or a city, or a settlement of some kind built on top of a hill, and it usually tended to be a formidable(令人敬畏的 强大的 险峻的) hill, one not easily accessible to anybody who comes walking along, a place, in others words, that would make a very nice fort, a citadel.

On that citadel, or on that strongly rocky fort or citadel, they built what we now identify the royal palace, the palace of the king. That was, I should point out, maybe ten miles from the sea. Not all the Mycenaean sites are so far from the sea, but some of them are closer to the sea, but what is important to say is that none of them are right on the sea. They always back some few miles, the reason for that I think is that the early times in which the early civilizations arose they saw all kinds of dangers coming, and the most--the swiftest, the least suspected, the one that can come on you overnight came from the sea. People who came by land you could be hearing bumblings about it down the road of the villages were spread out, but if someone comes in from the sea on a ship, you might find them in the morning and you don't know what's what. 

So, the idea of security and safety, they build their estate from the sea, but not far. Because as we shall see, the Mycenaean civilization was a commercial one that relied for its wealth upon trade and that mean the trade by sea more than by land. The citadel is always surrounded by farmland, and, of course. That is in ancient society, you cannot live without farmland because the food that comes from the soil is essential for life and you can
t count on trade to provide it for you with any security. Later on when times are more secure, there is trade for grain as well for everything else, but when you settling a place for the first place you cannot rely on somebody bringing it to you. You're going to have your own people working it and bringing it to you. So, the citadel and the farmland make up fundamentally the unit which is the Mycenaean kingdom. 

Well, the first thing that Schliemann found when he dug at Mycenae was this remarkable circle of graves, which were shafts dug straight down into the soil and they are refer to technically as shaft graves. At in other places not very far from the main hill they found even more remarkable burials, they found what we call beehive tombs. Just imagine a huge beehive, in which let's say, the center of the inside of that might be as much as fifty feet high or more, and these were built with extraordinarily huge, heavy stone and very well worked too. And here is the marvelous thing, these beehive tombs, like everything else, were buried. This wasn't just the result of centuries of neglect, it is clear that they were built in order to be buried.

That is to say, some kind of a big religious thing going on here, where the king, it was obviously a royal thing because the cost of it was so enormous, nobody else could afford a tomb of that kind. So, here was a royal tomb closed forever and yet built at a fantastic expense and enormous kind of labor. The same is true of what we find in the royal palace up on top of the hill at Mycenae. What is perfectly clear is the people who ruled these places were extremely powerful, at least locally, and wealthy, because even if you imagine that slaves did the work, you would need a hell of a lot of them and you have to feed them, if nothing else. So, we are talking about a wealthy group.

The other thing that struck Schliemann almost amazingly was that in the circle of graves that we've been talking about, he found all kinds of precious things buried. The most striking of which, were dead masks made of pure gold on the remains of the body, but also jewels, and implements, and weapons of very high expense. That's what of course, makes it clear they were royal. By the way, there were only a few of the graves over a large period of time. So you can imagine these were successive kings who are being buried in this, what must have been, sacred soil. 

So, we can say that the both from archeology and from the references in the Linear B tablets is that the culture of Mycenae engaged in trade to a significant degree. You find Mycenaean things in many other places all over the Mediterranean Sea. You find it in datable places that's why we can give them a certain date. Such as Egypt, the Mycenae had regular trade with Egypt. We find Egyptian things in Mycenae and vice versa and also presumably that much of it must have gone into Mesopotamia. This was a civilization that was not shut in on itself, but was in touch with the entire Mediterranean region. 

The major things they sell were aromatic oils in little vials(小瓶), think of them some kind of combination of oil and perfume. I better say something about oil in the ancient world so you can grep on what's going on here. The ancient Greeks had no soap, think about that for a moment, that's a problem isn't it? And they want to get clean and what device they used was to take oil, typically olive oil, then take a scrapper, a metal scrapper and scrape the oil and with what underneath the oil. And finally take a bath and out they go, they would be clean. Greece is filled with wonderful olive trees, so they obviously took the oil from the olives and I'm sure they sell it in various forms, but one of the most popular was for this purpose. Everybody in the Mediterranean wanted it for the same reason, and obviously these Mycenaean sites had access to what they needed. It looks like by the way, that they got much of the perfume from areas outside of Greece, some of the best comes from the northeast Africa, as a matter of fact. 

So you have trade with the Mediterranean, and most especially the east Mediterranean because that's where the older, more sophisticated civilizations were and that's where the wealth was too, compared to what was out in the west. That's the pattern of trade.

what you see is a kind of cultural unity. First of all, within the Mycenaean world itself, it's evident that these different Mycenaean towns all through the Greek world, on both side of the Aegean Sea, were in touch with each other. One of the things that's interesting about that is the you can see pottery style, you can hardly tell whether they came from one end to the Mediterranean of another if they're of the Mycenaean variety, because it was a single culture. I don't mean there were no local variations, but there was this general unity. I'm going to contrast that to with the situation of the Greece after the fall of the Mycenaean world. 

But I'm going to say not just in the Mycenaean towns themselves, but over the entire Aegean Sea and indeed across the Mediterranean, in the years of the Mycenaean period, roughly from 1600 to 1100 B.C., you are dealing with a world with a largely unified culture, what we say the word today, it was a globalized world only except the it was a little piece of the global. But they didn't really know or care about very much outside the Mediterranean area.  

Now, in respects that I have spelled out and what I mean chiefly the fact that they were engaged in commerce and industry to some degree, and that they were trading people and they were in touch with each other and so on. They were already similar to the civilizations that came before them in the ancient Mediterranean areas in the near east.

In those places, in Egypt, the Pharaoh, in Mesopotamia at first individual city states were ruled the same way as everybody I'm going to talk about now, by somebody who is a king, a monarch, a one-man king who is a warload, the commander of the armies, who has the control power of the state. But more than that, all the economic activities that we find and out best example is in Mesopotamia, in the cities of the Tigress-Euphrates Valley. The ruler there, from his palace, assisted by vast groups of bureaucrats, direct the economy of his land entirely and fully. Agriculture was overwhelmingly the most important activity of that area, or any other area.
So, we have evidence that the king doled(失业救济 救助) out the seed for planting, instructed people just exactly when to plan, where to plan, what to plant there, when to fertilize it if they did. In Mesopotamia they usually don't need to because of the richness of the soil, and so on. In other word, you have a degree of centralized control of true monarchical power, of a wealthy monarchical power, already a model is there in Asia.

And again I want to say it's the same but in special way in Egypt because in Egypt the whole Nile Valley--became totally centralized under the control of one man, the Pharaoh, and he commanded the whole thing. It took longer for anything like that to happen in Mesopotamia although it ultimately did. When we get, for instance, to the 1700 to 1750 B.C. in Mesopotamia, Babylonia, which is at that point the dominant kingdom of that area, King Hammurabi has just the same power as a Pharaoh did in Egypt. It's also worth pointing out that these ruler has full religious authority for their rule. In the case of Egypt, the Pharaoh was himself a god, and insisted being worshipped in that way. In Babylonia, for instance, and this I think was typical, Hammurabi was not god, but as we know, thank God, by the great steely(坚定的 adj/n) that he left in the Louvre. The law code of Hammurabi is available to us and there's a preface to it which basically explains why you should obey the rules that he now is laying down for you, and the answer is because the top god of our world, Marduk, appointed me in that place, and I'm doing what he wants me to do and if you cross me, you cross him, and that's bad news. That's a rough translation.

So, that's very important, you have a full monarchy in the sense that both--we in America talk about the separation of the church and state, that is a very rare and unusual thing in the world. The normal situations in cultures pre-civilized and civilized as well, is for there to be a unity between religious things and nonreligious things and all of that to be ruled by a single individual who is a single individual who is the monarch of that territory with religious sanction(认可许可制裁) as well as to his power and through the legitimacy of his descent. That's the normal human way of living.

So, let me say something about the nature of the society and economy that we find in the Mycenaean world, revealed both by archeology and in the record provided by Linear B. The remains and records of these strongholds make it clear that the political organization was an imitation of oriental monarchy. The sovereignty--the sovereign at Mycenae rather and at Pylos, another important site at that time, and at Thebes, which was another one, which somebody that the tablets refer to as the Wanax, which is the same word as a later Greek word anax, which drops the W at the beginning, that word in later times means some powerful individual, but it doesn't mean what it means here, the boss, the single monarchical controller of everything. 

He held a royal domain that belong directly to him, which was a very significant size and wealth. He appointed bureaucratic officials, he commanded royal servants and he recorded royal goods, which by the way, most of the tablets are inventories, lists of things that in the palace that belong to the king, other things to do with instruction that the king is sending out to people from the palace. 

There is no reference, in any of the tablets, I don't know how much we can make of it because the tablets limit themselves to such limited kind of things that maybe it doesn't prove anything, but in this case I think it does, there's no reference to law, no reference to anything objective other than the king himself in the administration of justice.

One scholar says,"It is natural to infer that the king, all powerful controller of the allseeing bureaucracy, possessed supreme authority also in the region of lawmaking and law enforcement. A omnipresent(无处不在的) bureaucracy with its detailed and all encompassing(包含) records gives the clearest picture of the power exercised by the centralized monarchs of the Mycenaean age."

The record discovered at Pylos here are particularly interesting. They carried only one part of a year, yet they carry details of thousands of transactions in hundreds of places. These files, as we might call them today, are both sweepingly(扫荡的彻底的) inclusive and penetratingly minute. For example, bronze is allocated to different places for the manufacture of arrowheads, or swords, with a note telling how many smiths in each place are active and how many are not. Cretan sheep, are enumerated to the amount of 20,000. And we learnt, in a Cretan village, two nurses, one girl, and one boy are employed. We are told how much linen is expected from a place called Rion. What is the acreage of the estate of a man called Alektron and what a guy named Dunius owes the palace. We even learned the names of two oxen owned by Terzarro: Glossy and Blackie. 

The records make it perfectly clear that the kingdom of Pylos and Knossos were bureaucratic monarchies of a type unexpected in Greece, but in some way similar to some contemporary and earlier kingdoms in the eastern Mediterranean. It is unlike anything we associate with the Greeks or anything ever again existed in the Greek world, and this is the point I want to make. 

Although these people are Greeks, but they are ruling in a culture which is thoroughly different from the one we will be studying for the bulk of the semester. So like the eastern states, you have a powerful ruler who is a warlord. There is a palace economy, there is a scripts, there is bureaucracy and there is collectivized under the central control of the economy.

That economy, that society, go forward and flourish for about 400 years. Then a bunch of terrible things begin to happen that shake the stability of the society and ultimately bring it down. 

Roughly speaking, at around 1200B.C., we hear of general attacks going on around the Mediterranean against the various civilizations of which we know. Egypt experiences a number of attacks from the outside world. Chiefly what we hear about is in the area of the Nile Delta, right there on the Mediterranean Sea. Among those attacker, there are others besides, there are attackers from Libya, we hear, but there are also attacker that simply called from the sea: the sea people attack. At roughly the same time, the dominant empire in Asia Minor, Anatolia, is run by a people called the Hittites, who have been there for hundreds of years and are now suffering assault. We know that because they also had a writing which we can read and it speaks of it, as well as the archeological remains that show destruction. 

Similarly, attacks are going on against the kingdom of Syria and Palestine, which is always hard to know what that piece of land should be called at any particular moment, and I call it Palestine, because one of the sea people attacked the Nile around 1200 in Egypt are called the Pelest and most scholars suggest that is the same name as came to be the name for this region when they ruled it, called Palestine.

And you will remember that when the Bible talks about this, it refers to a people called the Philistines. These are thought to be all the same people. Since they ruled it until, Samson, took them out with a jawbone of an ass. I think it's proper to call it Palestine at that moment. Cyprus, likewise, suffers from these attacks, and so far west, as Italy and Sicily are under attack. Something is going on.

The question, of course, is what scholars have disagreed about and continue to disagree because the evidence simply will not permit any confident answer, but I ought to just mention a few of the theories that have been tossed around, a few among many many. 

One of them seems to be fashion these days although you don't know how long the fashion lasts, is, internal uprisings that somehow these monarchical areas when life got tough, the people must have risen up against them. I think this reflects hopeful Marxist wish fulfillment rather that any reality, but that's not what poor people have done in history. If you look at revolutions in history, revolutions come typically when when things are getting better and the people don't like the fact that they don't have more than they already have. But, in any case, that's one theory.

Earlier theories, it's wonderful to have scientific theories to handle these problems which you can not demonstrate any fact for whatsoever(adj任何 adv丝毫 用于强调否定句 pron任何事物无论什么). I'm being a bit strong, but not too much. One theory making investigations on earth spores, hoping to find pollen. Behind that they say there were droughts in these areas throughout the period  and that caused tremendous unhappiness and discontent(不满 不满的).

Others have suggested climatic shift. Also we know the island in the middle of the Aegean Sea, called Thera, blew up in a most enormous kind of an explosion at some point back there in phe historical days. One theory is it was the explosion on Thera that caused so much climatic trouble that it can explain what went on here. The trouble is you just don't know when the explosion took place. 

And since there are several periods in this general area that we're talking about right now, in which something big happen, some big change takes place. It turns out different people want to have the explosion at different times. It's like a moveable feast, you put your explosion where you needed at any particular moment. I'm making light of it and I think it's somewhat justified because the evidence is just so scanty(稀疏的少量的 女士紧身小短裤). I think it's fun to play the game these guys do but we shouldn't take it too seriously. 

Now, let's go back to a theory which has at least got the virtue of being very old, although hardly anybody believes it anymore. That is the theory that what happen to Mycenaean world, let's forget what was happening elsewhere, was the result of a movement of tribes of ethnic groups who were outside the Mediterranean region at the beginning of the period and say at 1600B.C., but who pressed into it, usually the picture is they are coming from the north and the northeastern and pressing down into it. 

I have to believe that whoever came up with that theory for the first time was aided in coming to it by thinking of the Roman Empire, when something precisely like that just happened. These Germanic and other tribes who ware largely located in the north and northeast of Europe, came down and ultimately destroyed it by invasion. And of course, there are even more theories than there are about the fall of  the Mycenaean world.

But anyway, what behind that connected all of this was a very interesting Greek myth, which speaks about the return of the Heraclides, they are the sons of the mythical hero Hercules, who was a Peloponnesian figure. The story goes that the sons of the Hercules were expelled from the Peloponnesus and promised that they would come back a hundred years later  and conquer it. And since, this is a link that explains the old story. Since in the historical Greek time, let us say the fifth century B.C., the people who inhabited the Peloponnesus were mainly speakers of the Greek dialect called Doric. It was thought that Hercules' sons and Hercules being Peloponnesus no doubt speak Doric too, and so this was referred to as, by scholars of the 19 century, not by the ancient Greeks, a Dorian invasion, in another word, another kind of Greek. 

The Greeks who lived in the area before the fall of the Mycenaean world. What would they call, well, Homer gives us several names for them, but three stick out for me, the most common and the most widely used was Achaeans, another one is Danaans and the third one is Argives, Argives comes from the fact that they rule over the land Argos in Greece. 

Now the one that has some clout(破布敲打影响力 猛击) historically is Achaeans. So, the idea here is that the original Greeks who came in were what we called Achaeans and when these disturbances came and if the Dorian theory was true, Dorians either killed them all or dominated them, possibly intermarried with them but dominated them and washed away, wiped out the use of the Achaean language and imposed their own Dorian language upon it. And supporting such an idea, among other things, if you go to a mountain in the center of the Peloponnesus, there is a region called Achaea, where the people are Achaeans.

So those are the things that really helped people decide that the Dorians may really have been the sons of Hercules who actually invaded, and that what we find after the fall of the Mycenaean Greece are some of the following things, things that were not found in the Mycenaean world.

First of all, iron weapons, not bronze ones. A kind of a pin used to hold your cloak together, called fibula, unknown in the previous period. The building what the Greeks called a megaron, a rectangular center, which has a hearth in it, a front porch and a back porch, which will be the style in which the Greek temples are built in the historical period. That happen for the first time after the fall of the Mycenaean.

We know the Mycenaeans buried the dead by inhumation(土葬), and even the common people outside the royal family are buried in graves. Whereas(但是 然而 序言开场白), in the historical period, these people were cremated rather than buried in the world of Homer.

So the idea that was put forward in the nineteen century was that the Dorians who were a less civilized, tougher, meaner, harder fighting people assisted by the the use of iron and in their weapons which were superior allegedly(据称) to the bronze, came down, defeated the Archaeans, imposed themselves on them where they could and drove them away where they couldn't and that explains how things went.

That's being attacked and largely not believed these days for a whole lot of technical reasons that I don't want to trouble you with. I do not believe we can believe that simple story as it stands. It is too simple and there are too many things that it doesn't account for and there are too many things which suggest that it is not correct. 

However