The Dark Ages and the world of Homer

can we seek any historical information in Homer's poems at all?

The period between the Bronze Age and the emergence of the polis--most of it involves inferences from our understanding of what Homeric poems tell us. But I think we need to take a hard look at what we can do.

"Ironically, the more Homer exaggerates, the more authentic he is about the Bronze Age."

I think there is a widespread consensus among most of the people that study teh subject. That doesn't mean the consensus is correct. Not all of these opinions are shared by the same number, by no means, of the scholars, some of them are fall out. I would say the one that says you can't learn anything from this is an outlier(离群值). The notion that this is about the Mycenaean is an outlier and then I would say you get the largest consensus is something like the Finley's consensus, but people verging in both directions from that. What you'll hear from me, is essentially that consensus point of view. It strikes me as being better supported than the others, but we really have to keep an open mind because in this prehistorical period, you have to be very modest about what you think you know about it. Almost everything is inferences and judgement and very little is anythings you want to call proof. But those warnings are what I tell you sort of what I think most people think about this. 

First of all, if we want to know the Dark Ages, what resources do we have available to us? Of course, I've already mentioned the poems of Homer turns out to be a very large source for what most people look to.

Secondly, there are legends the Greeks told about their early history which come down to us in later sources and they are available. And the question is should we use them at all? and if we do how carefully should we be? This is a good time to make confession so that you know how to judge what I say all through the course.

Prior to the 18 century, when the German scholars start to look at the Homer's poems specifically very carefully and skeptically, and to make suggestions that the poems we have really not to be thought of as the work of a single poet, Homer, who had written it altogether. But who began to divide them up into early and late elements, which I thought drove the field of classics insane for about 100 years. And it began the critical study of the poems for the first time. And critical methods were applied and it became common to reject any ancient story that wasn't really nailed down very firmly by some device.

...the position of scholarship to which we call the Higher Naivete. The way is works is, you start out, you don't know anything, you're naive, you believe everything. Next, you go to college education and you don't believe anything, and then you reach the level of wisdom, the Higher Naivete, and you know what to believe even though you can't prove it....

So, I think the way to deal with legend is to regard them as different from essentially sophisticated historical statements but as possibly deriving from facts, which have obviously been distorted and misunderstood, misused and so on, but it will be reckless, it seems to me, to just put them aside and not asking yourself a question, " Can there be something believable at the root of this?"

And just to  give you some small defense of that approach, I always like to ask students "Supposing we don't have a single historical record, no newspaper, no diaries. You know nothing totally reliable for what happened in the latter part of the nineteenth century in America. Would we know anything about what happened?" Of course we would. We would know that there was a revolution against Britain. I'm sure that French assisted in that.... Those are easy, there's no getting around reading those things. Then it gets to be more interesting as we speculate....So the hard job would be to select among these legendary things to see what fact can be found, that will never be easy or deadly certain. That's what I'm talking about here. 

Finally, there is the sources that people who are skeptical most like to believe because it's tangible. I'm talking about archaeology, which is the discovery and examination and evaluation of material evidence, not in writing, the actual remains of places where they live, the implements that they use and so on. The beauty of that is that it's objective, it's not something that somebody imagined. But you should derived as much confidence from it as lots of archaeologists like to, because it's only a thing until you say what it means, until you put a date on it, until you try to understand what it really is, what it function is, who brought it there, who left it there. All the things you have to reason out from all the evidence, all the information we can get. So it's an astonishing amount of speculation involved in establishing this apparently rigorous objective technique. We certainly need to use it as we should use is carefully as we use everything else.But it is indeed very valuable in studying a world before our time, always.

Now, we mentioned how important the poems are, so, we need to take a look at what they are and how we know about them and so on. 

I mentioned to you that Iliad and Odyssey were known in the Western world continuously from the time that they were made available. So they were known and they were very important to those people who know about it, but I also mentioned last time the impact of Schliemann's excavations, which turned everything around. The hyper-skeptical point of view taken by scholars in Europe in the nineteenth century was eroded(侵蚀) sharply by the discovery of places and so the story couldn't have been simple inventions and that began a new phase in the story. 

And, again, there was certain stunning physical resemblances between what Homer said and what we could see. The palaces were like the palaces he described. and a lot of things, such like weapons and implements are squared with what was found in Mycenae...(as how chariot is used in war of Bronze age like tanks, ) and you would break the enemies line and give the other side an opportunity to wreak havoc(严重破坏) with their army. But in Homer's description the heroes use the chariot in a different way... Homer's view is much of the most, of what we are told about the Homeric world comes, as he says, 

One other thing is that many a scholar is very reluctant to admit that there is any Mycenaean stuff here although they cannot fail to concede that some of the implement found at Mycenaean sites are precisely like what Homer says.

Now the differences between what we find in the Homer's poems are also very illuminating. Differences between that and the world after the fall of the Mycenaean world. For instance, one of the most striking things you find in cultures anthropologists and archaeologists live off (live off 以。。为生)this, is what they do with bodies. In Mycenae, it's obvious that they bury them in the ground but we know that Greeks in Homer don't do that.

And here's another critical element of the story. We know that Mycenaeans, or at least some amount of them, could write. Because we have the Linear B script, which we can read. There is no clue, that there is such a thing as writing in the Homeric poems. There's only one very abstruse(深奥的难懂的) clue about somebody seems to know something about it. But fundamentally it's an illiterate society and that is a major difference.

Still now there are poets who lived in Yugoslavia in the mountains and the backwoods(未开垦的荒地，森林深处) where there still has these bards around. Those bards created sort of epic narratives of considerable length in which they still tell the same stories in verses and music and you could recognize the story as you went from bard to bard but every bard added and subtracted things to suit his own talents. That the idea of the game.

Then Perry demonstrated by careful scholarship of the Homeric poems that that is the way the Homeric poems, I would use the word stitched together, because in the ancient Greek world the people who sang, recited, created the poems of the Homeric epics were called rhapsodes. 吟诵者  bard吟游诗人

And that for centuries thereafter, different bards repeated that, elucidated(阐明讲解) it, illuminated it, changed it tried to improve it, sometimes they added stuff, and definitely some of them lived in the 8th century when Homer lived. So that we have before us, is that kind of product and that will explain both the similarities and the differences and that is what underlines our interpretation of how the poems got to be what they were.

So what is the world like that emerges from the world of Homer? We don't have to make up in our mind that whether it's a real world or a fantastic one, but at least we can describe what it looks like. And I'm going to focus my attention on what you might call the political side of that society. We hear about key individuals, Agamemnon, the head of the expedition to Troy, and he is the only human being referred to in the poems in that way. There are, however, many a individual in the poem who is referred as Basileus, the plural is Basilies, which is regularly translated as king.

The Wanax is usually used for the king of Mycenae, or gods. But only used in one person, Agamemnon. As we think about it, because his function in the situation, namely there is a multi-city invasion of Troy being carried on by the Mycenaean Greek, Agamemnon has been chosen as the generalissimo, and that, is what gives him, temporarily, the title of Wanax.

The king when we see them in Homer, do not have a bureaucracy, do not have scribes, because due to Homer they are illiterate. There are no inventories, because these are not rich guys that have fantastic quantities of stuff that has to be cataloged or inventoried. The kings, by our standard of kings, are very poor. What did they do in their time in general. THey themselves engaged in agriculture. I don't mean they dig the ground, but they supervise it, they think about it. They are like the people who are in charge of the plantation. So, that't one of their activities, you cannot imagine the great king of Mycenae doing that. They would have all kinds of subordinary officials taking care of that.

Another thing the kings are seen to do is to be herdsmen, but again, to have these herds and having to cope with them. Another popular thing among the king was piracy, that's what they brag about. Achilles, what a king he is, sacked 24 cities. WHat you do to sack a city? To steal what they have and well.

Another thing interesting is that when you look at the burials of Greeks in the post-Mycenaean period, there is nothing resembles the grand tombs and the wealth that's buried in them for the dead. You find that the tombs of the nobleman are very much the same one as the other. You are struck by the equality from the standpoint of riches of the dead nobility. You are dealing with a poor world and a world that doesn't have this kind of outstanding monarchy. 

So, one of the things that we learn is that the Homeric kings is not taken from the Mycenaean world. But another thing that crops up is that in the Iliad and Odyssey, you get a really clear picture, of what is the political structure of each society. And by the way, the stories of Odyssey and Iliad is not the same, but we still see the same institution working, the same relations being present as would be present. What do I mean? How are decisions made? Does the king simply says,"Do it," and it gets done? Nothing like that.

The king has got important powers. Agamemnon as the chief out there in Iliad, he can call a meeting of the assembly(装配 议会集会), but it turns out he is not the only one who can. Any nobleman who wants to can say,"We ought to have a council," And then that council will come together and do what ever business they should do. The council, however, is limited to nobleman, ordinary soldiers do not attend.

The key line of the Dark Ages appears not between the monarchy and everybody else, but between nobility and commoners. That's the really important. An assembly in Homer that consists of men, in case of Troy of course the fighting men, the man of the fighting age and condition, they are the only men that matter. As in all of the rest of Greek history, women are excluded from the political realm(王国范围 部门).

Now let me just reminds you of some events that show you some events  how the things work. THe Iliad starts because of a quarrel which emerges from the fact that the Greeks are busily been killed by a terrible plague. So, they assume that if something like that happens, it was some god or gods who was angry with them. So they get a seer who goes and is persuaded to try to find out what's happening. And he finally does ascertain(查明) that Apollo is angry  with the Greeks because Agamemnon took a maiden from his father, who was a priest of Apollo. When this is ascertain, Achilles, the biggest,fastest, strongest hero on the Greek side, intervenes and says just give back the girl and Agamemnon won't give back the girl only if Achilles give the girl he took from Trojan. Now Achilles really blows his top and from the quarrel, and he goes back to home, and quit his job. The thing that we learned from this is that decisions are made even in army, is by discussion among the noblemen, you will try to reach a consensus about these things and in extreme odd situations like this, it would have to be that they would have to do what the commander says. BUt the king, probably has some weight, but he can't give orders to anybody, typically.

Another story is that soon afterward also in that same place in the Iliad, a dream comes to Agamemnon, soldiers are tired of this because it's the tenth year of trying to take the city, god says to him,"Here's what you need to do, you need to try the spirit of your men, and in that way to inspirit them to carry on until victory. So, what you need to do is to get up and speak to your soldiers and say you're never going to take Troy, you might will pack up and go home. And then the soldiers will say, no king no, we refuse to do that, we insist on staying, we're going to re-up and do another term and we're going to take the city." So, Agamemnon do as it says and he call the troops together and he makes his little speech, but the essence of it is a great roar and rumble(争论 隆隆声) emerged the troops turned and began racing back to the ships to get the hell out of there. 

JUst carry on some of the highlights of that story that tell us a lot about the society. So as they are roaring back, suddenly Odysseus, the slyest, the cleverest, the smartest of all of the Greeks, he goes racing among the troops who are heading back and he grabs one, Homer says when he came to a gentleman, he says," Sir, you are making a mistake, you don't understand the game that Agamemnon is playing." and he explains is to him and the guy says," oh okay." When he comes to one of the common sort, he says,"You bloody imbecile(同idiot), get the hell back to where you belong." After grabs enough of them and finally thing turns around, everybody goes back and sits down, and up steps one man, Homer describes him as the ugliest man in the entire army, so you get a clue as to what we're supposed to think about him, he makes a speech which denounces all of the basilieus, Agamemnon ahead of all of them, he says,"We ordinary soldiers have had enough and we would like to go home." And up steps Odysseus and blasts him with his scepter, smashes him across the back, leaving a welt that could be seen by the entire army and tears came out his eyes of this guy. Are we supposed to feel sorry for him? Well, the next lines in Homer says that one soldier popped up and said, "of all the great things Odysseus has done for us here, that was the greatest," to shut up a big mouth idiot like Thersites.

Well, what Thersites had done that was wrong, of course the poet and Odysseus didn't like his policy suggestion, but he had no right to speak at all. THe only people who could speak in the council or in an assembly were the nobleman, or the basilieis. So, he has crossed the line as an ordinary soldier to rise and to say anything was a violation of that culture. And that's one of the places where this sharp line exists. They just take orders. But the gentlemen don't just take orders, they can argue and sometimes they can win the argument.

So, what you see in that brief and inadequate account that I've given you is that we really, in spite of the fact that we have basileis, and even in this case an anax, we really don't have a proper monarchical tradition. When we think of monarchs, single rulers, we think of Hammurabi and we think of the kings of Persia, we don't think what we have here, which is a bunch of noblemen who are essentially equal, and the differences between them don't come from birth or rank as between them, but from the wealth and power that they happen to possess. Which is rather, not a royal society but an aristocratic society.(贵族社会而非皇家社会). And it's the matrix of all future political ideas and arguments in the Greek world that comes after this time.

I think you need to understand what the Greeks in the historical period--once we start having written records by the greeks themselves, the thing that is the standard position--what is the thing on your computer when you fall back to a position. The default position of Greek political theory is aristocracy, that is the normal thing. There is another thing when you think about political theory, there's Plato and he lays out the ideal society of his view in the Republic, we find there are multiple rulers. There is never one king, there is always a group of people that is the best government. 

Anybody who wants to argue for a different kind of political arrangement will have make the case uphill against all the tradition. So when we get back to the story of Athens, the invention of democracy was off the wall from the perspective of Greek tradition, which is a default aristocracy one. And of course, anybody from time to time who think that monarchy might be a fine thing. They ran against something that was regarded much more hostility by the Greeks. When they had reached their peak, their notion of monarchy is something fit for barbarians, but not for greeks. A free man may not live under a monarchy. ANd the roots of that may be visible in Homer.

The Homer is the most studied and basic document for all Greek thinking in every area that you can imagine overtime. It's not the only one, but it never ceases to be the best known, the most influential and the most powerful. If there were a religious document primarily we would speak of it as the Greek Bible, but it isn't nonetheless. Well, some examples, later on in history there's a quarrel between Athens and Megara as to who controls the island of Salamis. They decide to call an arbitrator, so they call in the Spartans, and the Spartans think, well, it belongs to Athens. why?  If you look at the catalog of ships in Homer's Iliad, the island of Salamis had its ships lined up next to the Athens. So you have to realize how potent this is.

Well, let's turn to another aspect of the story of Homer and how the poems play into Greek society. There is some precautions for the ethics and value from the reading of Iliad and Odyssey. First, about religion, there are gods. We have to remember we are talking about a multi-deity society. Polytheism is what we talking about, with heroic characteristics. but Greek people would not be god fearing, as they call themselves with the same race of the god, resembles the human beings oppose to divinity. Such an act is also part of the arrogance which is characteristic of ancient Greeks. BUt at the same time, that he is great thing almost like a god, he is also not a god in the most crucial way possible. Gods do not die, men die. The mortality of human being is a reality and it's of the greatest significance and importance.

The tragic view of life, which the Greek invented, is also a significant character of their culture. How do Greeks deal with the problem that men will die? There is one kind of the eastern solution which can be found in many religion and philosophy that says the fact that man is nothing. He is dust. So who cares if you are going to die? You were nothing to begin with and you'll be nothing when you finished. RElax. Then there is what I characterized as the Christian solution. If you are a good, capable Christian, you will not die, you will have personal immortality. No need to worry if you're doing  things right.

But the greek tragic view does not take either of these routes, which can be seen as a relatively easy escape from the problem compared to the way greeks got stuck. Man is great, and they kept saying so, he is important. He is capable of great things. HE is the same race of gods. And at the same time, life is short and death is final, and death is bad. 

The greek idea of hell is a situation that you will keep trying and you always lose. The Greeks face with no real retreat, the reality and the negative character of death, even as they refused to reject the significance of life.

We live, still in what might be called the Age of the Enlightenment. That is the dominant sort of some paradigm of what life is all about, at least in the Western world. The core of it is progress, something that was essentially not exist among the Greeks. 

Progress in the eyes of the philosophers of the 18th century was something like the Christian hope for immortality. The hope of Voltaire of this world was that they could make the world better constantly by making efforts and this would be rewarded in a kind of a way because progress in the future after they were gone would redound to their credit for having brought it about. ANd that is some sense they would live on in this society which they had proved and made a better thing.

Another aspect in this sort of enlightenment approach is individualism, which means the core of everything is the single individual person. And we shall see this is very different from the Greeks. The greeks were very much concerned with individuals and this is especially true of the democrats in Athens. But even their most potent spokesman and leader placed the goals, achievements and everything else of an individual behind something that they thought more important, the community in large, which is the polis. That is not the way it is with the modern world, and that is no the way it comes out of the enlightenment, the individual is the ultimate. The enlightenment, if you go back to its routes, in the 17th century with the time of Hobbes and Locke--what is the ultimate place you go to? It is the rights of individuals. You may not stamp out the rights of individuals, they are inherent in everything.

Well, Greeks had no concept of natural rights, or rights that human beings are given by the  gods. That is the very important difference, so you have to act in such a way as to make life possible and decent and for the Greeks that always meant be part of a decent community, the polis.

But the modern world, let's get back to that, to this enlightenment world. A key aspect to individualism is hedonism(享乐主义). That is to say, it's legitimate and proper to search for pleasure to attempt to please himself however he can. And it turns out that if you could take it to our own day, there are no limits pretty much to what he can do to gain pleasure. 

I would argue that there is a direct line from the enlightenment philosophy to nihilism(虚无主义), that is to say that there are no limits to human beings may do. What turns out to be the practical fact  is that he who has the power and the will to do will be able to do so. and he who has not will be forced to suffer whatever the powerful impose on him. And this is seen by the original nihilists as a good thing. Nietzsche said some of us are better than others, some of us are superman and it is quite wrong and wicked for us to be treated as though we were ordinary fellow and therefore do not tie us done with these ridiculous codes of ethics and morals and other things which are simply the weapons by the weak hold down the strong.

This was interesting, but it wasn't new. THere is a greek in 5th century who says the same thing. THere is no definition of goodness for this modern approach, no happiness, each individual decides for himself what is good, what is happy. What is really does is to evade the question that I'm talking about. Is this all okay? If we are all going to die, then does it really mean that we should just do the best we can at anybody's expense while we're alive? Is that a satisfactory outcome? Will we indeed be happier, better off while we're alive? 

If we do that, the Greek would have said, that is stupid and absurd. If you think for ten seconds you'll realize that's no good.


Now, the Greek on the other hand, had a powerful belief on chance. THey accepted in fact it is another modern idea that there is no divine force or divine forces who oversee mankind on earth, but rather things happen simply in a random way. according to no particular rule and that's the way it is. THere is no virtue or merit that determine the quality of your life. It is chance.

While, that leaves the Greeks with something like this question. IN the light of human mortality, the disinterest of the gods, the chanciness of life, what can man do to achieve happiness and immortality? Because he still not happy with his mortality, though he accepts that this is a problem, it's something that he still hankers(渴望) after, which is inevitable that people should. Part of the answer is very Homeric, it is the heroic ethic. In Iliad, Achilles tells us, why do you come he to fight at Troy? if he did not fight at Troy, his partial divinity from his goddess mother that can keep him immortal so he never die. BUt on the other hand, he would not be great and famous and his memory will not be carried forward in the future. IF he went to Troy, he would die, but his memory of the greatest Achaeans would be immortal forever. well, you know the answer he chose and you know that it turns out to be right. we know still know about him.\

Well, anyway, sometimes he's asked what made you come here in spite of that, and his answer was,"Well, when my father sent me here, he told me a number of things that I'm supposed to do, but the most important of these was the Greek words, aien aristeioi, always be the Best. the best doesn't mean morally the best in anything like our sense. The Best means the greatest, the strongest, the ablest, the most admired. That's what you want to be. And you can only do that if you are in a contest. YOu can only be the best if somebody else is not as good. The greek word for that kind of contest is agon. So, it is fair to think about the Greeks as having a particular agonal society, a society filled with competition, in which if not everybody, lots and lots of people are constantly striving for the very best, whatever the definition is.