The heroic ethic is the dominant element in the Greek system, to look at this in another way, that this is an aristocratic way of thinking and feeling. The core of it is the arete(德行), this word cause lots of problem because even in antiquity the word means something quite different. In Christianity, which adopted the word as well, the word comes to mean goodness. But when thinking about the world of Homer, it means different things. IN greek, arete derives from anar, which means man, man as oppose to woman. 

So, these are the masculine qualities as the Greek saw them. And primarily among them was the idea of courage, physical courage, mental courage, mainly courage in battle is the core aspect of the word and to be much more encompassing than that. THe most neutral way to translate the word is excellence, prowess(造诣 才智), the ability to do something or to be something which is admired in the fullest way possible.

Some of the examples of arete, are courage, as I said, but also beauty, strength, the ability to perform athletes very well, and the ability to speak very well. It's an extraordinary thing for modern people to see that there are two central heroes, Achilles, the central figure in Iliad, who represent physical strength, power, beauty all of those things, and Odysseus, the hero in Odyssey, he has also got all these things, but the thing that set him apart, that makes him special kind of hero is the skill of speech, which doesn't mean only the pronounce words very well, but rather he is enormously clever, that he can achieve practical ends using speech, just as he uses power and strength.

The Greek regards this just about as well as they do the other. The Odysseus, Homer calls him man of devices, all of these are great and are equally honored along with the physical courage.

The recognition of all the things, the recognition of arete, that the heroes have is what their lives are all about. First of all, they have to have this characteristics but nevertheless, they have to be recognized by people among whom they lived, by the community the live. And the highest rewards the individual can have are the recognition of their fellow men of their high qualities.

We are talking about a society, therefore, the anthropologists have come up with, societies based on shame, as oppose to some practical guilt. Guilt is something very personal. Shame is something that very external and public. And how you are treated and greeted is what makes you worth. So this is the society that community is the critical element which an individual who didn't live in a society could not achieve. THe kinds the glory, fame, recognition, which you expect from a hero.

And all these heroes are aristocrats in the traditional sense of words, they arrived at high standing in their community by virtue of birth. YOu are born to one of these people because your father was such a person belong to the right family.

The noble families of Greece, typically when we saw it in Homer, claim descent from the god and ordinary people do not have. THe family and the individual are the critical elements, but larger range of community are not mentioned like village, entire city, they are barely mentioned. Again we see in Homer, when Achilles refused to fight for Agamemnon, nobody accuses that as treason. Nobody says he is not performing his debt to the community. Everybody, every hero are there to fight because they wanted to be, so that they can earn both the wealth that can be take fron the defeated city, but more important, the kind of fame and glory that comes with such deeds.

We've already known that Achilles made the choice of dying with fame over living forever with no fame. That attitude, that view, even after Greek's time, remains a very important powerful influence on the Greeks throughout the entire history. So that you have built into that society an inherent conflict. After all, even these heroes need community to live for all various purposes that human beings do, so they have allegiance to them, they do, but they also have allegiance to their family and to themselves, which in Homer, the latter tend to be predominate, and yet the sense of conflict is very real, so later you will see that even Achilles to come to terms with the community norms in order to live in a normal life. 

And this conflict, between his family and private desires and needs, and the way of the community, will be characterized strongly of the Greek life for the rest of its history.

Competition, again, is rearing its head, the competition between these two different source of value.
the community at large versus the individual and family. And this kind of tension doesn't make things clear, it's not easy to say what's the right thing, all of that creates confusion, problems, but also conflicts, tension and all those things. BUt it also creates a kind of freedom, which doesn't permit the typical despotic(专制的) kind of culture which characterizes almost all of the human experiences that we know in the early history of human race.

And this had an impact on the future, which I mean the future of the west civilization which is the heir of this tradition. As I mentioned to you last time that the poems are the Bibles that which is the source of all knowledge and wisdom that anybody knows anything knows and they were put into practical use to decide the battle ships belong to whom. and when Caesar the Great went to conquer Persian, he carried a copy of Iliad under his pillow as he thought he is the Achilles of taking power to every place. 

Now if you look at stories of the western civilization, it provides a very interesting contrast within it, which is the Judeo-Christian tradition and the ancient Greek tradition. A little example to explain how that works. The Iliad begins with the accusative noun, "I'm singing about the wrath, anger Achilles which brought so many men to their doom." We need to notice is that the first thing is the feeling of an individual man. The Odyssey begins even more strikingly with the word accusative of a man, and it says,"saying to me goddess about that man, that man of many devices, the clever man Odysseus." 

So what are the greeks talking about? They are talking about men, extraordinary men, and events that emerge from them and the life they lead. Well, let's look at our Bible. "In the beginning, god create the heavens and the earth." The book talks about god, what he does, sometimes why he does it, what is the effect of what he does, but the center of out book is god, not man. 

This is not an accidence, it reveals the characteristic of each one of these cultures. The Greeks had a humanistic outlook of life, they believe in god, they were religious people, but the things in their life was shaped by something human, which is different from what was true of the Hebrews and the Christian later on, which is a divine view. THe secular approach is very Greek versus the religious approach. The greek view, moreover, presupposes that man lives in society. he is not creature off by himself, by definition, he necessarily live in society. He is conceivable(可以想见的) to the Greek only in a society. The Iliad, which is about the war, immediately is a kind of an artificial society put together for the purpose of defeating the Trojans and taking their city.

Aristotle, writing late in the Greek tradition, that man is a political animal, which means man is a creature who lives in the polis, a Greek kind of city state. in the same general passage he says, the man who is by nature without the polis, is either more or less than a man. What he means is that the man is superior to the polis he doesn't need a polis, he is a god because man needs a polis. If he is beneath the polis it means he's beneath what it is to be a human being and that tells you just how potent is this concept of a community for the Greeks.

Odysseus also was offered an opportunity to live forever, when his ship wrecked on the island in which the goddess Calypso ruled, she fell in love with Odysseus, this is the fate of great heroes, they are heroic and handsome, and women love them, she says just stay with me and you will live forever. BUt he says you are very beautiful girl and I enjoy you a lot, but I got to go back to Ithaca.

In America society we don't have Iliad and Odyssey, we don't have our own bible, but I think Mark Twain's Huck Finn is really revealing to see what is so different about us in the modern times and the Homeric world. When things don't goes right for Huck, what does he do? HE lights out and wants to get away from society, as an individual rejecting society, fleeing his individualism of society. The greeks would think you've lost your mind or that you were some kind of a barbarian. 

Views of society of the two traditions in the Western civilization.
Life in society which Adam and Eve have to encounter, which is to build cities and start living among each other. That is the punishment of seeking knowledge of good and evil  and straining for divinity. Man should be humble and do not close to divine. His hope simply rests with god but not himself. When he tries to take things in his own hands, and in this process, to contravene the will of god, only terrible things happen to them. 

It's very interesting in the 18th century, Rousseau, whom himself seems to be a poisoned apple in the history of human race, oddly, revives that biblical view, if you think about it. his point is man is happy and good before the invention of society which  society corrupts man and takes away from him his happiness, so what we need to do is to undo the evils that organized society have done. and only if we remove all of the bad things created by society man would return to his naturally perfect virtuous self. That is the major source of individualism which is the great western force. And nihilism(虚无主义) that I think inevitably emerges from it.

I think people have, in different ways, found in Rousseau, the Nietzschean nihilism and of Marx, and I think there is powerful ways to do so, because you can go in either both of the directions and once you start making that kind of assumption.

For the Greeks, on the other hand as I said, political society was essential for living any kind of a good life. IN the Odysseus, Homer writes the following," The monsters live without laws." But before they become laws, they are the customary norms of society, in another word, civilization. they live without laws so they wreck not of one another. That means each family lives on themselves, they do not have a community, they do not have society. So of course, they are sort of prehistoric monsters to the Greeks.

The JUdeo story says that in the beginning men were innocent. Innocent by the way means ignorant. Because knowledge gets in the way of their innocence. What destroy their happy, permanent condition is the sin of pride. And the consequence of that sin is society, corruption, pain and death, because they know neither of these when they were in Eden. 

Salvation is available, and with is immortality, but it comes with the god and it does not come with the world which we live. That is the thumbnail of the Judeo-christian story.

THe Greek story is quite different from it. War was the center of the story and war itself requires social and political organization. They can be fighting without war but it can be no war without organization that makes it something more than just fighting. The search of honor and glory are at the root of why men fight and a lot of many other things according to this view. The Greeks did have a notion that something resembles the Judeo-Christian story, they have something called hybris, to be translated as something like this in terms, excess, arrogance, violence.

I think the fullest grasp of it might be rendered best by violent arrogance, something of being above yourself and thinking yourself more than a man with the implication that you are approaching divinity by being more than a man, and acting accordingly, which usually requires violence to achieve what you want. The sort of Greek ethic runs in this way.

IF a man is given too much, he is too well off, he is too rich, too strong, too beautiful, so much so that he becomes too arrogant and is ready to step beyond his human condition. At that point, the god don't like it, like the Judeo-Christian god, they want to have a boundary between them, but for them it's important because the boundary is far from clear. 

So what happens to the man who has too much? He is afflicted(冲突) with hybris which leads him to take violent actions. On to the scene comes the goddess Ate, which might be translated moral blindness. In other words, he no longer thinks straight and so he will do something dangerous, harmful and very ultimately bad for himself. And when he does whatever it is, he is struck with Nemesis, the goddess of retribution(严惩 报应).

Of course, the most famous Greek case is in Sophocles' play Oedipus the King, which illustrates it very well. Oedipus is a brilliant man, he achieves the kingship of his city because of his extraordinary intelligence and he is a good man, he is the king, don't imagine he is despot, anything but. THe people love him. HE saved the city thanks to his brilliance and goodwill. However, after a while, he becomes to satisfied, too comfortable with his own brilliance, when another threat comes to the city, he is confident that he can solve the problem again for his people. He is warned by the gods through seers(预言家) and by men of wisdom saying, "don't investigate this question too far, you might be making mistake. He won't listen, he bowls ahead. And he discovered in the process the terrible truth, which is that by accident, by coincidence, not by intent, that as a young man he killed his father and subsequently married his mother. And this most horrible combination of facts drives him--and he is already suffered from the hybris and the Ate and the retribution is terrible in his terrible, what to say, in his madness, when he discovered these things he tears out his own eyes, blinds himself. And of course for the rest of life, he must go about as a beggar having been this former tremendously great king.

So these are examples of what happens in the Greeks ethics later on, if you are guilty of this characteristic. On the other hand, the Oedipus himself, when he understands and he relents(放松 缓和), and in a sense he apologizes for what he has done but more importantly, he ceases, of course, to be powerful and to act in that way, wisdom comes to him again. He understands he has acted immoderately. That is the critical concept. 

Moderation is the this wonderfully important great thing for the Greeks. You must act in moderation. They don't ask you to be humble and throw yourself on the ground and consider yourself as nothing compared to the gods.

Be a man, be proud of what you should be proud of, but don't go beyond the limits of what is human, because when you do, terrible things would come. 

Seek fame, we all want that, and I'll say more about that, but you can't go too far.

>联想到第一节的delphic maxims
 - know thyselves
 - nothing in excess
 - surety brings ruin

So here is a typical Greek problem that you've got a contradiction that you got to live with and you cannot resolve. As if you want to seek the fullness of a human experience, you have to try to be the best possible man to compete successfully against others and to achieve fame, glory and recognition. But if you push it too far, you will anger the gods and terrible things happen.

So, it seems to me that Western civilization, ever since, has become a composite of these two traditions. But there is no way to put them together, and so western civilization is an ambiguous society with the war always ragging(破布嘲笑戏弄) within the soul of it. And it's never going to be clear which of the approaches is the better one. I don't know whether any of you have ever thought about this and anything like this way.

But if you contemplate your own way of thinking about what you supposed to do with your life, I think you'll find some combination, but that combination doesn't ever has to be fifty-fifty. More typically, on aspect of the culture dominates rather than the other, well it shifts from time and place. And in many, throughout most human beings, there is a consciousness of both. They both have some attraction, and one has to grapple with it. So, a part of you wants to become the greatest whatever places you want to become, and you wouldn't be here if you weren't very competitive, very eager to come first, devoted to arete and your own version of that kind of thing. 

Yet, it's very easy to say to you that is not a good thing to do. You should try to be humble, you should be like what Jesus suggests in the Sermon on the Mount. YOur soul is in deep danger if you indeed continue to lead your life that you have mainly been leading up to now. Those things are always in conflict.

There are aspects of demand for performance at the highest level, and at the same time there is a great deal of blaming people for pursuing such things instead of humility. 

That's Western civilization friends, and the Greeks are at the root of it. 

So, now we are into the next topic, which is to leave the world of Homer behind us, and to begin to tell the story of the characteristic unit of Greek civilization,
