The story of the hawk and the nightingale illustrates really the doctrine of the might over the right. THe hawk says he is a fool that tries to match his strength with the stronger, he will loose the battle, and with the shame will hurt also. So don't try to fight against stronger people is what he said.

It is better, he says, to go by the path leading to justice. For when justice is outraged, and by the way justice here is personified in the form of the goddess called  Dike, she follows before us weeping to the polis, and the gathering of people. SHe puts a dark myth upon her and brings a curse upon all those who drive her out, who deal in(做某买卖) her and twist her in dealing.

The lines that Hesiod writes in the poems shows that the polis is there already. There is no way talking about what he is talking about in the kinds of settlements that existed before the invention of the polis, and that I think is worth mentioning.

Beyond that, the fact is that for the Greeks that early and always--btw it remains so, the notion of justice is directly connected with polis. THe only place where justice exists or can only exists is in a polis. The only way you can live a good life is when you live in a polis. And when you do live in a polis of course, you have to behave justly, and this is tremendously important, because your behavior doesn't just affect just you and your family, it involves the entire community. Remember even one bad man can ruin a polis by the punishment for god.

That is a strong statement about the priority of the community and that is very different from the values we saw in the Iliad and Odyssey. YOU cannot imagine in the world Hesiod describes that Achilles or anybody says if you insulted me so I will not fight for my polis. That can be inconceivable in this type of world.

Now given this information, we are onto the problem that for the Greek polis for rest of its history and it's really a problem to this very day for all people who live in some sort of a civilized community. How to reconcile(conciliate安抚 reconcile和解) the interests and desires and wellbeing of the individual and his immediate family with those of the community at large. They may seem, and probably might even be said to be, different and antagonistic(对抗的) at some point and when they are what should you do? FOr the Greeks the answer was pretty clear hereafter, one ought and should be interested to take actions on behalf of the polis.

And here are some examples that show the poets fairly early thought the polis was for and about and the relationship between individual and polis. In this case I'm talking about Herodotus, who very early in his history tells a story of his visit to Lydia, the land of the great tyrant Croesus, who is also the richest man in the world.

So on goes visits Croesus, Croesus asked Solon, who is the most happiest, the most fortunate-- both of those things contained in the word he uses-- that he had ever seen. Solon was now a man of full years, he was a man greatly respected, he turned out to be one of the seven sages that the ancient greeks selected for the wisest man who ever lived. SO it would be very interested to know what he thought about that. Of course, Croesus had shown his wealth to Solon, in my view, he put the question in this way, Solon, as he looked around at his fabulous wealth and great good fortune. Solon answers, Tellus of Athens, who is unknown to anybody else outside Athens. Croesus was astonished, and he asked why Solon select Tellus and here is what Herodotus says:

First, because his city is flourishing, that is his polis, and he himself had sons both beautiful and good. And finally fought to death at most gallantly against the enemy. To summarize, the happiest, the most fortunate man was a dead Athenian that nobody ever heard of. Why? we see in this passage something that reveal so much the Greeks value war and you'll see how closely they were tied up with the polis and the primacy of the polis in their lives. 

Well, why are all the things good? First, his city runs well, a man living in a city not functioning well is impossible to be happy. Second, sons. since the Greeks do not believe in immortality, how do you find what everybody wants? One way is through family. So to speak, if you have sons and they are healthy, and they do well, and they have children, that means your name will be carried into the future. and that is one form of immortality. BUt the greatest type of immortality is the story Achilles and his fellow heroes which is to fight for your city, and when you died fighting nobly for your polis, you memory will last so long as the polis lasted.

Final document comes from precisely the poems of Solon. As we shall see Solon is a very important figure in Athens, and at a critical moment in Athenian history, the Athenians will give the honor and the responsibility of being the sole public official to draw a new constitutional laws for Athens, an enormously important job. And in the course of defending himself against the attacks after he had done it, he wrote what really amount to political pamphlets to defend his actions and to set forth the ideas that lay under the actual laws that he had put forward.

It's worth pointing out that the the poems are better device for remember than prose, which is the way to let people remember and spread and so they did last in history. Here is a fragment of Solon's poems:
 "So, the public ruin, invades the house of every citizen, and the courtyard doors no longer have strength to keep it away, but it overleaps the lofty wall and though a man runs in and tries to lock it in a chamber or closet, it ferrets(搜索) him out. SO my sprits dictates to me, I must tell the Athenians how many evils a city suffers from bad government" The greek word for that is Dysnomia, and good government, Eunomia, "displays all neatness and order, and many times, she must put shackles on the breakers of laws" 

 "An Eunomia levels rough places, stops glut and greed, takes the force from violence. She dries up the growing flowers of despair as thy grow, she straightens out crooked judgments, gentles the swollen ambitions and puts an end to acts of divisional strife. She stills the gall of wearisome hate and under her influence, all life among mankind is harmonious and does well."

Wonderful. Where do all these good things come from, are they from god? No, they come from the polis, when its laws are good, and therefore when the government it provides is eunomia rather than the opposite.

He is making a claim here, which is a powerful one, but which was characteristic of Greeks. The laws that the polis have is not merely a negative thing like todays, which is prevent wrong doing and punish wrong doing. THe laws in a polis makes its citizen better,, not only defeats wrong, but it creates rights.

Now lets talk about citizens, in greek, politas. As we mentioned, all of us have this natural selfishness when we are born. We all seek our own interests and soon we join up with a family and we want the family's interest up to a point, and how is this fits a community in large? A problem the Greeks always wrestled with. To conclude, Pericles delivered a great deal of thought to this problem and present the best argument he could think of for solving this problem which was to claim that the individual's highest needs, and great family and personal goals, could only be met through the polis. And his well being was tied up inextricably(难解难分) with the well being of the polis. 

Now, we don't have to buy that and individualism undoubtedly found the strain too much from time to time, but what's interesting, is rather the ideal, the claim, the theory. You cannot truly achieve what you want without being an active and loyal citizen of this great community which you need to achieve what you want in life.

It is a claim already and as you've seen in Aristotle towards the end history of the free polis. It's something necessary for mankind. It is the center of Pericles' life and it explains the Greeks' devotion to the independence, to the autonomy of the polis and their desire to beautify the polis and make it as great as it could possibly be. All that sounds very nice, it certainly had very nice aspects to it, but there  was of course downsides as well, which is every polis wants to be great, and being Greeks, they wanted to be greater than the neighbors. THat involves conflicts and often among the Greeks involved war.

Now Greeks were not unique in history in constantly being ar war. If you examine the human history, so soon as they were organized to wage(工资 准备发动战争) war they began to do it all the time. But it is true that the life of the Greek world was much more filled with war of the polis than other civilizations. Because others have one great power that are able to dominate the entire region after some time of war, Egypt as a good example. So no longer was war possible. But the flip side of that is, there is another thing that is impossible--freedom. 

In Greece, you have a lot of war, and you have a lot of freedom, and all of that is tied up, I think very much, with the development of polis.

Now, let's take a look at other aspects of the polis, not how it developed, but how it functioned, how that helped to shape the characteristic that shown in its full blown period that is called the Classical Period.

THere were really three things that come together. One of them is how the Greeks in the late Dark Ages and on into the period which the polis emerges, made their living. THe second has to do with how they fought. THe third is how they were governed or rather how they govern themselves. All these three things, in my judgement, are necessary to how the polis came into being, how is came to be what it was and how it came to fulfill and believe in these ideas that I just tell you about. And again this is a very controversial subject.

The population of Greece had become much smaller than it had been in the Mycenaean period. And that from the population standpoint it could sustain, it could sustain, it was under populated. And if you start to look at what was the way in which the land was worked for the purposes of feeding the population, it was okay to look at the Homeric poems as some kind of evidence to help us out. The obviously mattered units in the world of Homer is family, the greek word ``oikos``, the household, the land the family work and the family themselves.

The earlier style pictures rather large estates by Greeks standards, with raiding warrior groups going out to steal what they can, they are engaged in raising livestock, which is more likely to be sheep and goats than cattle. And breading horses which are important for the aristocracy for carrying on warfare.

Let's flip back a step beyond that to the Mycenaean for the purpose of noting the great contrast, to great change. Remember, like the ancient near eastern kingdoms and their collectivized agriculture, control from the center. THe individuals who carried out the farming and grazing are not permitted individual initiative, they are under controlled. THese civilization and other civilization like other in the Mediterranean kingdoms were rather advanced. They knew how to cultivate the grape to make excellent wine and how to cultivate olive to make superb olive oil and how to process them to produce the result. THey were engaged in arbor(乔木 转轴) culture, their fruit trees produce well. It was a civilization that was rather advanced in terms of its agriculture skill.

All the agriculture skills and knowledge were kept in the palace that allows the king and his people to send out messages, orders to everybody to do what they should. And when the palace civilization collapses, the whole system collapses. That explains, in large part, why there were huge decline in population, why the dark ages were so dark, lots of poverty, lots of starvation. 

BUt in some time of that period of the dark ages, probably around the 8thB.C. century is the greatest transition. Somehow big families obtains a chunk of land that is understood to belong to it. The family knows they will have the land and they were able to pass it on from father to son so that he can inherit it, and that changes everything. THat kind of stability gives promise and is a basis for making every kind of necessary investment in order to make it better. THat is the idea of private land attached not to any one person, but in perpetuity(in perpetuity=forever) to a single farm family. 

THe critical thing is people would not take the risk to make things better without clear title to the land. Once they have the land, the idea of private land changes the whole basis of society and the values and the attitude that goes with it. IN short, it is the invention of the family farm, that is the critical moment of the human history and there certainly is no example of it that I know of, apart from Greece. 

and after that is the population growth, for this the archaeological evidence is very strong. THere are more and more people living on the land of Greece. What do they do? One of the problems is that the more people you have up to a point that's good, there are more people who can work to improve the production. But beyond that point, there are more people to feed than the production can feed, and that leads to the desire for expansion of the land available for cultivation. 

Now there are couple of ways to go, one is certainly something can be called as internal colonization. The way it works is that when you are engaged in agriculture it's natural to go first to the soil, which can be known to the most likely to produce the best land, the most fertile, the better land there is. So, that the way they are. But now, when you need more, you can't just say I only want the best bottom land there is, you move out to some place nobody bothered to farm before, because it wasn't profitable enough, and then marginal land is brought to play with hard work and ingenuity(聪明才智 心灵手巧).

Above all we are not talking about the agriculture aristocracy, but agriculture community of small family farms. ONe of the things that come with the development of this kind of agriculture as the polis is slavery. 

Slavery is as old almost as human race, certainly was already present in the world of Homer, but the slavery is few in the dark ages due to the general poverty of the society. BUt as the family farm in agriculture comes into being, the way is found to use slave in a positive, productive way, positive from the standpoint of profits. But that's something quiet different from the southern plantation because only small amount of slaves were engaged and the master has often to work along them, to give instructions and the slaves are like being hired to work and live together the family except they have no freedom.

One of the funny thing that the emergence of the family farm gives rise to the polis' character as a land in which there is a citizenry, which is to say free men who rule themselves. So, polis would see the invention of freedom in this way, and oddly enough, it is accompanied with the growth of slavery at the same time. BOth freedom and slavery come along the same time in the greek world.

THe new farmer is not just like a different kind of farmer, but a different kind of person. He is a citizen in his political role, a soldier, but a soldier not in the pay or the hire of a king, or of an aristocracy. He is a citizen soldier who has participated in the decision that says it is time to go to war and who will play an active role in making decisions about his state's policy and behavior. HE is independent in a way that nobody who was a king or an aristocrat in the past has ever been -- a new kind of man, the backbone of the polis as it emerges.

THere is still an aristocracy made up of the old guys and they don't just disappear and there will be a long stretch, some degree of conflict between these new independent farmers and the aristocracy and never does that aristocracy go away, that's old/. IN short, the new farmer, citizen is new, but old things never go away.

What percentage of Americans work on farms at the end of the nineteenth century? --it's sixty to seventy percent, and further back into the american history the closer it is to ninety and ninety five percent. THat's the history of the world, the whole human race has spent the bulk of its time farming. BUt the number of americans today who works on farming is too small to be mentioned, 5 percent.

Farmers are a sociological category of people, different from non-farmers in all kinds of critical ways, and it is just an example that farmers'disappearance is something happens newly.

Now we've finished the economic aspect of this phenomenon and next is the area of politics. Back in the Mycenaean times, there was a despotism of some kind.