the third character the independent farmers play is what we want to talk today, the role as soldiers that fighting for their polis. a form of fighting men is a phalanx(方阵), which is something was rolling across the plain as the men went forward and looking pretty formidable. 重步兵方阵hoplite phalanx, a core of heavily armed infantrymen in a solid block. 

The phalanx would have come into being somewhere between 700B.C., which is to say after the earliest polis are in business and according to this interpretation it really have them growing up together.

the hoplite itself is marked by first of all a shield and second of all, as we continue to talk about its defensive capacity, he has a certain amount of armor to protect his body. He has on top of his head a helmet made of bronze, perhaps weighting around 5 pounds, these are approximate numbers which would differ from person to person to some degree. A very important element he would have had a breast plate made of bronze, perhaps as much as 40 pounds. He would snapped across his shins(胫骨), greaves(胫甲), sort of like the shin guards that a catcher in baseball wears. The shield itself is made by heavy wood covered by a leather or bronze sheet about three feet across, something in the neighborhood of 16 to 20 pounds.

As he is covered and protected from head to toe, he can't pretty much see behind but straight ahead. You shouldn't pretty much hear anything either, and it mustn't have been too delightful to breathe out of the thing.

Now, between your waist and your shin guard, there is some very delicate territory, because there is no armor. THat's what your shield is for. Your shield should cover that territory. You want that shield up so that is pretty well meets your helmet. So if anything goes right, the enemy wound penetrate your, but you should be aware that there are two places where you are relatively vulnerable for openers, which is beyond and below the shield.

on the offensive side, the hoplite has two weapons, of which the most important by far is called pike(长矛).

THere is a science in drinking. Plato's Symposium, all of these guys are sitting around having a drinking party. THat's all they do all night. But also talking, and they are talking very well as a matter of fact. And the goal of this conversation is, by the way, Symposium means drinking together. So, they are drinking and they are talking, both of these are supposed to go on at the same time. And here's the thing, the idea is to drink as much as you can without passing out. And at end of Plato's Symposium everybody is out except Socrates who look around and says," oh well no more conversation everybody's asleep." Off he goes and we know who won that one.

Why could they do that one? Well, they weren't ignorant undergraduates, but beyond that they drink wine, no those you barbarian liquids that you drink, but also they mix that wine with water so that they wouldn't get drunk to fast. Think about how the world has decayed since those days.

Anyway, it still has its alcoholic consequences in the battlefield. THe trick is that to get to a level of inebriation(醉酒) but before it affects your nerves and your physical ability to act.

But it worked on your brian to the point where you get to that sort of what I like to think of, the bar room militance(好战n.), whereby(由此借此，conj在某方面) if the guy says that would you pass the peanuts? you say,"Oh yeah?" That is the ideal hoplite mode. They want to get to those son of bitches on the other side and they want to kill them and all of that is working on both sides. 

So, when they come together, they come together in a trot, they moving along quicker and they would collide together.

Now, another issue that emerges in discussion of these kinds of battles is the casualties. For long time, the general wisdom is that there were not heavy casualties in hoplite battles. The casualties could run as high as 15% at a hoplite battle. That's a high casual rate, while the winning side will lose about 5%.

