one of the ways in which we can date the time when the polis came into being has to do with the greek tradition about establishment of colonies.

There are clear evidence for Greek colonies Throughout the Mediterranean is because every time we see a colony, it appears to exist in a form of a polis. That's the chronological significance of it.

The first question was that what was it that let the Greeks to sail or walk very great distances from their mother cities, to leave home to establish a new city for themselves, someplace else, and this is not to be taken for granted. In the first place, by and until 20th century, human beings tended to stay put, they didn't move until they were driven to move. We have some evidence but of course we don't know any certainty or any confidence. The most widely cited reason is the request of more farmland. As I'm always emphasizing, the vast overwhelming majority of people needed farmland in order to stay alive. THe notion of the land eager is the key factor. 

And it is supported by the fact that wherever we find in a polis, whatever other characters is has, and they vary, all of them has a demand for farm supply which permits the citizens to farm successfully and thereby to make the polis succeed. 

Then there are always things that we might call much less rational that in any group of people there is a small minority, I want to emphasize small who just love to do risky things, they love adventure. SO off they go seeking adventure and seeking to make a fortune however they're going to do it.

SO what are these new settlements like. First, they like each other in many important ways. THe Greek word for colony is meant by faraway home, which is not the same as what Roman Empire would do to take charge of cities as invaders, so the word for this behavior is only chosen to be colony, but it's definitely not the kind of such establishments.

So, how does a colony come into being? First, somebody in one of the old Greek cities has to decide that he wants to go out and establish a colony. He would be an individual of some eminence because the job requires much leadership and he will need to recruit people. And he will have to do the constitutional discussion and a political discussion from the mother city to allow him to do everything he knows.

So we should imagine these leaders of colonies, founders of colonies, would be probably noblemen and that they would have a position of eminence. BUt yet unlikely to be part of the dominant faction in that city because otherwise why would they leave. 

First, the founder would take full consideration of the place he found perfect to be a new colony, he would be a person who is quite familiar of the land and as well other situations and announce the plan to be feasible. And then he would go to Delphi. Delphi is the place where you should visit in Greece, it's the oral of everything as the ancient greeks says. Because there the god Apollo had established an oracle(神示所). No matter the Greeks or the barbarians have to go to the Delphi to get the answer of god and indeed it became the best information gathering and storing device existed in the Mediterranean world. THese temple people know more than anybody else about these things, so consulting the oracle was a very rational act indeed. Now if you get the permission of Delphi, now you have to go home and write up what amounts to a charter of foundation for the city, which lays out how things are going to work in this city--something about the governmental structure, maybe more fundamentally, how the land will be alloted and assigned and so on. So, when you go to recruit settler, everybody will know what he's getting and decide whether it's gonna be good for him or not. 

Now, recruiting is tremendously because you need to have a certain number of settlers to maintain the city viable. 