greek tyranny()所谓僭主，指不通过世袭、传统或是合法民主选举程序，凭借个人的声望与影响力、武力获得权力来统治城邦的统治者。
僭主与君主都是一个人统治城邦，但君主顾及并促进全邦人民的利益，而僭主则只关注他个人的利益，忽视全邦人民的权益。僭主政体是一种变态政体，与之相对，君主 
僭取本由公民集体享有的政治权力，所以被视为违背常规与不合法的。

Tyranny emerges in the seventh century B.C., which in response to some of the very same developments about the burst of colonization. All of those tumultuous(骚动的), troubling changing forces that were at work in society and bring about this new kind of regime which lasts from one to three generations in greek history. It was a transitional phase in greek society rather than one that lasted for a terribly long time. BUt it was not trivial in some case the influence went for three generations.

What is tyranny? tyranny and tyrant are borrowed from other languages to describe certain elements emerged in their society. Tyrants are people who have centralized power and lots of wealth. One translation that poets give for Tyrant is lofty despotism, that means he rules not as a king, but as a master ruling slaves.

THere is another sense attaching to the word tyranny, that is the power is not legitimately acquired. the regime of royal pass on power by  blood, though greeks don't practice kingship but they don't think that as an illegitimate form of regime. But tyranny is not legitimate. A tyrant doesn't have to explain himself and nobody dare insist that he do. He doesn't need to have the approval of anybody.

Irresponsible is another I think that fits into the picture.
the greeks felt that any regime to be legitimate must be responsible in the technical sense. It must be answerable to somebody. Because all human beings, by the philosophical core of this idea, are not to be trusted by complete power. They will abuse it, with or without violence.

Tyrants are often think themselves to be compatible with gods. Because they have the power and wealth and because they have no responsibility to anybody, presumably they can. And this is one of the things makes them terrible.

For the greeks it originally meant something much more neutral, it simply means two things. One man rule, well that would always raise an eyebrow but you could imagine being okay. And the fact that it is unconstitutional.

The first tyrant named in the Greek tradition is a man called Pheidon of Argos. Who is mentioned by Aristotle in Politics. Here are some alleged facts about him. Pheidon imposed a system of uniform weights and measurement in the Peloponnesus. You don't do that if not in fully control of the region. He is also a leader of a powerful army. And he is most probably the first king to strike silver coins on the island of Aegina. NO coins were present in Greece prior than that.

now you have all of the stuff, the pressure of a growing population, new groups challenges the aristocracy. 

The typical sort of historical development, people making revolutionaries are often people on the margin, who has some kind of connection by birth or think they have some connection with the higher and are annoyed, irritated, angry, jealous and therefore likely to take the trouble to seize power.

Untraditional root to power is important. Gyges(巨吉斯), perhaps you remember the story of Gyges. HE was the prime minister of the king of LYdia and the king had this incredibly beautiful wife and he is terribly proud of her, so he said to Gyges, you can't believe how gorgeous she is. Gyges says of course she's wonderfully beautiful. You can't tell with her cloth on for god's sake, he says, come on, come with me. Gyges says"no,no please your majesty." king says, come with me. So there's Gyges hidden behind a curtain and here's his wife disrobing and indeed she was as advised. The king goes on, Gyges would have slipped away, but  the queen spot him, and of course she's totally disgraced, she's deeply embarrassed just to put it very wildly and so she says to him,"unless you do what I tell you, I will tell my husband you sneaked me and did this and he will kill you. But, what I wanted to do is to kill him and marry me. That's how you can make it up." What could Gyges do? And so that's how he became king. THat's not your normal constitutional procedure even in Lydia;.

