When coming to Sparta you are coming to a polis lifted to a new level in the sense of all the theoretical elements and psychological elements that go into creating a polis is intensified in Sparta to such a degree that is almost a different thing. And it is important that the other Greeks felt that way too. Sparta has a special place in their minds, in their imaginations. THey admired the Sparta very much because the Sparta carried the feeling that the polis was the center of a Greek man's life. and it had a virtue that were associated to the polis to an extraordinary degree.

They admired it much but not so much to live like a Spartan because the price was very high indeed. One other thing we need to take a look at the way the Spartans lived was that they became a sort of a model for the philosophers in 4 to 5th century B.C., I mean certainly Plato and Aristotle who had some criticisms of the real Sparta that existed.

It is fact that the Sparta would emerge in the 6th century as the most powerful of the polis. First we need to take a look at how Sparta became the most powerful among Greece.

As the beginning of Sparta, there was slaves called helots(黑洛士) do the farming and other people who would do the bronze and iron. Sparta don't do anything else than fighting. 

两次美西尼亚战争 got a lot of slaves. ANd only after the second Messnia war, the Sparta constitution comes into being. What is established in this constitutional ultimate reform is to make Sparta like no other state in the Greek world, and perhaps unlike any states around the world, and to make it the subject of attention and interest about the Spartan way of life that make them take it seriously and admire it. 

One of the things I don't want to lose sight is that Sparta becomes a slave holding state like no other state in Greece. Now, there was slavery all over the ancient world, there was no nation in the ancient world that was without slavery. ANd there was certainly nothing like what Spartans did, that to have a system of life that allowed the Spartan citizens not to work in order to live. No other states would have it. If you look at the slavery system in 7th century B.C., that the farmers would do the labor in the field, perhaps with one or two slaves that they owned assisting them, that's not the Spartan system. The Sparta system will be the Spartans at home, training constantly for their military purposes. The slavery like in the antebellum south in the US.类似南北战争之前打南方奴隶制度
where great army of slaves are doing all the work and where the plantation owners don't do anything at all. 

Now let's look at the sparta constitution when it fully developed. It begin with the training and education of the youth. When a Spartan boy is born, already from the beginning this is not merely a matter that concerns his family. A decision as to whether or not he should be allowed to live is made by the elders of the Spartan community who examine the kid. What do they examine him for? mainly, almost entirely, for his physical condition. If he is crippled, if he is deformed in any way, they will have him put to death. The infant, the baby would be killed, the reason for that was that they had a clue about eugenics(优生学). This is not like in any other states. It doesn't mean that they do not kill babies. they clearly did. But that decision was made by each family. But in Sparta, it was a state decision. THe state will decide whether you live or die.

Well, suppose the child made it through the first ordeal(), now he has six years of more of less normal life. He lives in his home like any other normal boys with his mother mostly, and with his father I supposed too, not so much, you'll see why I say not so much in a bit. And finally at the age of 7, he is taken away from home, put into a word in Greek that really means pack(小队), just like cub scouts(童子军). The are taken into the military school and also the only school in Sparta. That school is governed by a magistrate and it is run by the older boys. In many aspects, it reminds me as being like an upper class British public schools, which means of course private schools. The descriptions of Eton and Harrow, and even more harrowing places than that. Because the older boys are allowed to deal with the younger badly. They are bullies. they push around, they mistreat them. Tough is one of the thing if you're thinking about Spartan education.

But they made it now to the age of 12, the live in these barracks(兵营 工棚), they have a communal(公共的) life, they have nothing resembling luxuries available to them--more and more sounds like an English public school in the 19th century. They don't have shoes, they are given one cloak. Now, whatever you may think about the sunny Mediterranean and Greece, go to Sparta in the middle of winter. It't damn cold. So that one cloak isn't enough, and that's intentional. The idea is for them to learn how to bear cold. They are fed enough of course, to keep them healthy and going, but no more, not to satisfy their appetite. This is to make them, first of all, lean and tough, but also to accustom them to the hardships of a campaign and basically to make them tough. They, therefore, are constantly are on the hunt for food. And interestingly the ethos(精神特质,思潮) of the situation is that they were trying to steal whatever they could. They would be encouraged to do that but they would be punished severely if they were caught. SO the trick was to steal but not get caught. 

I always thought that some wonderful focus of what it was like to be a kid in one of those Spartan schools is revealed in one of the stories that Plutarch tells.

the boys until the age of 20 are trained by older boys, I should say young man between the age of 20 and 30. SO this educational element would consist of boys from the age of seven to men at the age of 30. and the guys between 20 and 30 will be the teachers and the boys below them will be their pupils. now other elements involved in this picture is that there was as you always find in system where boys are packed together and there are older and younger boys, hazing is part of the game, all part of the business of being tough and manly and so on and so forth. But that's not enough. 

what the The Spartans are shooting for is not merely developing individuals who have the qualities that are desired. They are interested in developing people, young men who are so closely intertwined with each other as to  be tighter even than the family. And one aspect of this is very clearly sexual. The typical arrangement was a young teenage boy would be associated with an older man, and these were very much homosexual relationships. But this was a passing phase. When the boy reach manhood himself then he was no longer in that relationship. ANd every Spartan went on after, and was married, and was supposed to produce children. I think we should take is as all part of the state system as being for training and education to produce fighting man and who would also be practically all a single family as close and tight with one another as they could be. and that would give the Spartan soldiers fighting ability.

The Spartan man between 20 to 30 are allowed to marry, but they are not allowed to live with their wives. They continue to live in the barracks. Talk about strange and peculiar arrangements. On the other hand, they have a natural desire to visit their wives, which they would do if they weren't get caught. Now when  the man gets 30, he stopped being an instructor in the school. Now he has his own home, and if he has children below seven they'd live together. And the situation looks normal. except that these Spartan men did not eat dinner at home, they had their dinner together at a common mess. Each 15 men had meal together for the rest of their life. There again, you have a sense of tremendous community building, a unit building. What was it? about the size of a platoon isn't it?一个排 Every thing in this was military. Now, think about the kind of a loyalty to one another which is so critical to success in warfare. Even when they are grown men and living at home, they are still maintaining their close quasi familial association with their fellow fighting men. 

What are the quality that are supposed to be produced by this system? Discipline, first and foremost. Every aspect of the act is governed by the laws and the customs of the community. YOu better conform. There is no other choice for you. Self reliance, strangely enough, because all of these encouragements to theft and discouragements to getting caught have to do with building the ability to do things like that. Social cohesion. Who can imagine a system more constructive to bring about than this. 

Uniformity. You are all just like one another. You go through exactly the same experiences. There's no distinctions among you. On the other hand, this  is another one of the interesting contradictions about the system. Every men in in contradiction with one another. They fight for honor, for recognition by the peers and superiors. And that is the contradiction. The Spartans are living in a condition of strain, much greater than most societies impose on people. BUt it's obviously arranged so effectively that it works. You don't have an evidence of mass insanity or great need for psychiatrists or anything like that. If it was an insane society they were all insane in the same way, and they didn't know it. The business of sameness is very important. They referred to one another and they were referred to. That's it.

It's important to talk about Spartan women too. The rest of the Greeks treated women very differently from men. One striking difference is that when men engaged in physical exercise, especially in competitions that were part of the great games, they come in the nude. Women do not do so and if they were seen nude in public, it would be the greatest conceivable shame. BUt the Spartans do thing their way. Spartan women engaged in dancing and athletics and competition and they did so in nude. And so they were not shut away from the boys as in other Greek places. THey also have more legal rights than other states. THere were actually in a sense group rights with the women. If the man found his wife couldn't bear children, it was legal and proper and normal for a man, who was his friend to lend him his wife.

More formal constitution of the state. It's unique and a mixed constitution. It's not democracy, not monarchy, not oligarchy(寡头), not aristocracy. It contains elements of every one of those moral constitutions. They have two kings. They serve as the leaders of the Sparta army. They are judges in all sort of cases. 

THere are two other things. One is the gerousia(元老院), the council of elders has very important powers and some of them relating to the kings. There is another council are consisted of five men, who are ordinary radom Spartans. They have the power that can charges against the kings if they believe either of the kings done wrong. and then the kings are tried by the gerousia.

the only people who spoke at the Spartan assemblies were the kings, the gerousia, or the group of people called the five ephors(五人监察院), who are the annually elected officials of the year. In short, the average Spartan did not ever speak in the assembly, it appears. So, it's not a democratic assembly even though every single citizen could participate. So that is the mixed and rather confusing aspect of the assembly.

The ephors were invented late in the development of Spartan constitution. the word itself means to oversee what's going on.  ONe of their duties is to keep watch on the kings and to see the kings didn't do anything improper, illegal, irreligious or anything of that kind. 

Now, another thing about the ephors is that they are very different. The people of the gerousia are old men who have proven themselves by a process in which their individual qualities are relevant. So they have tremendous prestige in the Spartan state. This is not true necessarily and typically of the ephors. Aristotle tells us that they can just be any Spartan. they are all ordinary people, not distinguished in anyway necessarily. THere is a strong element of chance involved in who was going to be an ephor. And they were only there for a year. The king and the gerousia are there for life. 

Remember that all the Spartans that they are, whether they are ordinary citizens, all the way up to king, are a small minority of all the people who are under control of the Spartans. THE percentage was way up to 10 to 1. The Spartans don't like democracies and they won't like any form of autocracy(独裁统治), which in Greece typically took the form of tyranny. THey gain reputations of being hostile to tyranny.

The spartans became the first state to be in command or in control or to be the leaders of a coalition of states. Not for a special purpose only, but a permanent coalition of states, which the ancient Greeks referred to as the Spartans and the allies. Modern scholars would call the Peloponnesian league. the time is around 750bc. 

Even though Sparta is by far the strongest military force among the Greeks, they are more than usual reluctant to fight. And they don't like to fight the wars if they can avoid them, especially they don't like to fight a war in long distance and they don't like to fight for any long period of time if they have to be away from home.  And the reason for that is what we should really see. According to Thucydides, 修昔底德 it was the fear of the helots. It's not just that the helots were so numerous compared to the Spartans, they are tremendously unsatisfied with their situation. Their backs may have been broken, but their spirits are not. They always want to have a rebellion in which they could undo these extraordinarily heavy burden that they carried. Somehow in hundreds of years of time, they did not loose sight of their nationality. THere is a story of rebellion that in the 4 century B.C., somebody tried to stir the people against the Spartan government and he said he would do that for the helots who would gladly eat the spartans raw. 

Another thing that the Spartans are worried about is-- remember why are the Spartans successful? Numerically they aren't many enough-- it's because they are the best. And why they are the best? It's because these training system, these values, this way of life that is the purely spartan way. So, there're always a majority of spartans who are suspicious of and hostile to any kind of change internally certainly, and externally because external things always have internal implications. They are always worried about corruption seeping into the Spartan system. 

Corruption normally has the concept of money, wealth behind it. If money comes into the picture, people start being brought by it, they will cease to think as the way good spartans do only of the state but they will think of themselves and their wealth and so on. Another is that corrupt is the search for power beyond wat is appropriate in the Spartan system. Remember the contradiction in the spartan system where everybody is a similar almost in equal, but each one is vying for honor. which is not available universally to all. All of that leads to conservatism in foreign policy.

all the reasons could explain why the strongest military power in the Greece is reluctant to fight and their power is not to acquire economic benefits, what they focus on is discipline and the state versus freedom, individuality and even family. THere you have a strange society, a closed society that does not permit people to come and visit Sparta. 

ANd now we talk about the fully developed Spartan state there are no exercises of the art such as existed before this system was created. THere are no luxury legally in Sparta and there are few creature comforts. 