【托福119、雅思8.5带你精听美国金融新闻 88】 https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV12T411P7Ur/?share_source=copy_web&vd_source=dbbb79377ff247a0d373b7eb14db90ec

wall street eagerly bid a du? to a week month and a quarter. 
the S&P500 ... about


Wall street eagerly bid **adieu** to a
miserable week, month and a quarter.
The Dow fell 500 points, or 1.7%.
The S&P500 slid 1.5, the Nasdaq slid 1.5 to end the day.
There is no denying the September **swoon** 
came with a vengeance: for the month the Dow was down 8.8%


bid 报价 出价  
bid sb. sth. 
bid sth. to sb. 向某人说 bid him good morning 向他道早安

bid adieu to 向..道别 == bid farewell to sb

swoon 痴迷 swoon over sb对某人痴迷 迷迷糊糊

---

【托福119、雅思8.5带你精听美国金融新闻 87】 https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Te4y1H7xt/?share_source=copy_web&vd_source=dbbb79377ff247a0d373b7eb14db90ec

stock trade have fade this morning head into the final trading weekend September this major average has coming off a brutal week, atlanda president Ralfial Barstay signaling a little optimism this weekend.
Bostic telling CBS face the nation expects jos loss as a result of the 
temp down inflation. but he says the loss could be smaller what we have seen 
****
--
Stock **futures** are mixed this morning, stock futures 股票期货 mixed 涨跌不一
heading into the final trading week of September. 
The major **averages** are coming off a brutal week. 
major averages 三大股指  come off 刚刚完成了sth 从sth 恢复过来

Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic signaling a little optimism this weekend. 美联储 联邦储备委员会+12个全国储备银行 arm
Bostic telling CBS's Face the Nation, he expects job losses
as a result of the Fed's action to **tamp** down inflation.
but he says those losses could be smaller than what we've seen in other situations

tamp down 压制 压住



